

  * [Code repository and issue tracker](https://github.com/nodejs/node)

# Node.js v23.10.0 documentation


## About this documentation#

Welcome to the official API reference documentation for Node.js!

Node.js is a JavaScript runtime built on the [V8 JavaScript
engine](https://v8.dev/).

### Contributing#

Report errors in this documentation in [the issue
tracker](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/new). See [the contributing
guide](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/HEAD/CONTRIBUTING.md) for
directions on how to submit pull requests.

### Stability index#

Throughout the documentation are indications of a section's stability. Some
APIs are so proven and so relied upon that they are unlikely to ever change at
all. Others are brand new and experimental, or known to be hazardous.

The stability indexes are as follows:

Stability: 0 - Deprecated. The feature may emit warnings. Backward
compatibility is not guaranteed.

Stability: 1 - Experimental. The feature is not subject to [semantic
versioning](https://semver.org/) rules. Non-backward compatible changes or
removal may occur in any future release. Use of the feature is not recommended
in production environments.

Experimental features are subdivided into stages:

  * 1.0 - Early development. Experimental features at this stage are unfinished and subject to substantial change.
  * 1.1 - Active development. Experimental features at this stage are nearing minimum viability.
  * 1.2 - Release candidate. Experimental features at this stage are hopefully ready to become stable. No further breaking changes are anticipated but may still occur in response to user feedback. We encourage user testing and feedback so that we can know that this feature is ready to be marked as stable.

Experimental features leave the experimental status typically either by
graduating to stable, or are removed without a deprecation cycle.

Stability: 2 - Stable. Compatibility with the npm ecosystem is a high
priority.

Stability: 3 - Legacy. Although this feature is unlikely to be removed and is
still covered by semantic versioning guarantees, it is no longer actively
maintained, and other alternatives are available.

Features are marked as legacy rather than being deprecated if their use does
no harm, and they are widely relied upon within the npm ecosystem. Bugs found
in legacy features are unlikely to be fixed.

Use caution when making use of Experimental features, particularly when
authoring libraries. Users may not be aware that experimental features are
being used. Bugs or behavior changes may surprise users when Experimental API
modifications occur. To avoid surprises, use of an Experimental feature may
need a command-line flag. Experimental features may also emit a warning.

### Stability overview#

### JSON output#

Added in: v0.6.12

Every `.html` document has a corresponding `.json` document. This is for IDEs
and other utilities that consume the documentation.

### System calls and man pages#

Node.js functions which wrap a system call will document that. The docs link
to the corresponding man pages which describe how the system call works.

Most Unix system calls have Windows analogues. Still, behavior differences may
be unavoidable.

## Usage and example#

### Usage#

`node [options] [V8 options] [script.js | -e "script" | - ] [arguments]`

Please see the Command-line options document for more information.

### Example#

An example of a [web server](http.html) written with Node.js which responds
with `'Hello, World!'`:

Commands in this document start with `$` or `>` to replicate how they would
appear in a user's terminal. Do not include the `$` and `>` characters. They
are there to show the start of each command.

Lines that don't start with `$` or `>` character show the output of the
previous command.

First, make sure to have downloaded and installed Node.js. See [Installing
Node.js via package manager](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/)
for further install information.

Now, create an empty project folder called `projects`, then navigate into it.

Linux and Mac:

    
    
    mkdir ~/projects
    cd ~/projects copy

Windows CMD:

    
    
    mkdir %USERPROFILE%\projects
    cd %USERPROFILE%\projects copy

Windows PowerShell:

    
    
    mkdir $env:USERPROFILE\projects
    cd $env:USERPROFILE\projects copy

Next, create a new source file in the `projects` folder and call it `hello-
world.js`.

Open `hello-world.js` in any preferred text editor and paste in the following
content:

    
    
    const http = require('node:http');
    
    const hostname = '127.0.0.1';
    const port = 3000;
    
    const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
      res.statusCode = 200;
      res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/plain');
      res.end('Hello, World!\n');
    });
    
    server.listen(port, hostname, () => {
      console.log(`Server running at http://${hostname}:${port}/`);
    }); copy

Save the file. Then, in the terminal window, to run the `hello-world.js` file,
enter:

    
    
    node hello-world.js copy

Output like this should appear in the terminal:

    
    
    Server running at http://127.0.0.1:3000/ copy

Now, open any preferred web browser and visit `http://127.0.0.1:3000`.

If the browser displays the string `Hello, World!`, that indicates the server
is working.

## Assert#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/assert.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/assert.js)

The `node:assert` module provides a set of assertion functions for verifying
invariants.

### Strict assertion mode#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | Exposed as `require('node:assert/strict')`.  
v13.9.0, v12.16.2 | Changed "strict mode" to "strict assertion mode" and "legacy mode" to "legacy assertion mode" to avoid confusion with the more usual meaning of "strict mode".  
v9.9.0 | Added error diffs to the strict assertion mode.  
v9.9.0 | Added strict assertion mode to the assert module.  
v9.9.0 | Added in: v9.9.0  
  
In strict assertion mode, non-strict methods behave like their corresponding
strict methods. For example, `assert.deepEqual()` will behave like
`assert.deepStrictEqual()`.

In strict assertion mode, error messages for objects display a diff. In legacy
assertion mode, error messages for objects display the objects, often
truncated.

To use strict assertion mode:

    
    
    import { strict as assert } from 'node:assert';const assert = require('node:assert').strict;copy
    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';const assert = require('node:assert/strict');copy

Example error diff:

    
    
    import { strict as assert } from 'node:assert';
    
    assert.deepEqual([[[1, 2, 3]], 4, 5], [[[1, 2, '3']], 4, 5]);
    // AssertionError: Expected inputs to be strictly deep-equal:
    // + actual - expected ... Lines skipped
    //
    //   [
    //     [
    // ...
    //       2,
    // +     3
    // -     '3'
    //     ],
    // ...
    //     5
    //   ]const assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.deepEqual([[[1, 2, 3]], 4, 5], [[[1, 2, '3']], 4, 5]);
    // AssertionError: Expected inputs to be strictly deep-equal:
    // + actual - expected ... Lines skipped
    //
    //   [
    //     [
    // ...
    //       2,
    // +     3
    // -     '3'
    //     ],
    // ...
    //     5
    //   ]copy

To deactivate the colors, use the `NO_COLOR` or `NODE_DISABLE_COLORS`
environment variables. This will also deactivate the colors in the REPL. For
more on color support in terminal environments, read the tty `getColorDepth()`
documentation.

### Legacy assertion mode#

Legacy assertion mode uses the [`==`
operator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Equality) in:

  * `assert.deepEqual()`
  * `assert.equal()`
  * `assert.notDeepEqual()`
  * `assert.notEqual()`

To use legacy assertion mode:

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';const assert = require('node:assert');copy

Legacy assertion mode may have surprising results, especially when using
`assert.deepEqual()`:

    
    
    // WARNING: This does not throw an AssertionError in legacy assertion mode!
    assert.deepEqual(/a/gi, new Date()); copy

### Class:
assert.AssertionError[[src]](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/39e295dca5e13316cded152225523e0ba8741140/lib/assert.js#L181)#

  * Extends: <errors.Error>

Indicates the failure of an assertion. All errors thrown by the `node:assert`
module will be instances of the `AssertionError` class.

#### `new assert.AssertionError(options)`#

Added in: v0.1.21

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If provided, the error message is set to this value.
    * `actual` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The `actual` property on the error instance.
    * `expected` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The `expected` property on the error instance.
    * `operator` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The `operator` property on the error instance.
    * `stackStartFn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) If provided, the generated stack trace omits frames before this function.

A subclass of [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) that indicates the
failure of an assertion.

All instances contain the built-in `Error` properties (`message` and `name`)
and:

  * `actual` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Set to the `actual` argument for methods such as `assert.strictEqual()`.
  * `expected` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Set to the `expected` value for methods such as `assert.strictEqual()`.
  * `generatedMessage` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Indicates if the message was auto-generated (`true`) or not.
  * `code` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Value is always `ERR_ASSERTION` to show that the error is an assertion error.
  * `operator` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Set to the passed in operator value.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    
    // Generate an AssertionError to compare the error message later:
    const { message } = new assert.AssertionError({
      actual: 1,
      expected: 2,
      operator: 'strictEqual',
    });
    
    // Verify error output:
    try {
      assert.strictEqual(1, 2);
    } catch (err) {
      assert(err instanceof assert.AssertionError);
      assert.strictEqual(err.message, message);
      assert.strictEqual(err.name, 'AssertionError');
      assert.strictEqual(err.actual, 1);
      assert.strictEqual(err.expected, 2);
      assert.strictEqual(err.code, 'ERR_ASSERTION');
      assert.strictEqual(err.operator, 'strictEqual');
      assert.strictEqual(err.generatedMessage, true);
    }const assert = require('node:assert');
    
    // Generate an AssertionError to compare the error message later:
    const { message } = new assert.AssertionError({
      actual: 1,
      expected: 2,
      operator: 'strictEqual',
    });
    
    // Verify error output:
    try {
      assert.strictEqual(1, 2);
    } catch (err) {
      assert(err instanceof assert.AssertionError);
      assert.strictEqual(err.message, message);
      assert.strictEqual(err.name, 'AssertionError');
      assert.strictEqual(err.actual, 1);
      assert.strictEqual(err.expected, 2);
      assert.strictEqual(err.code, 'ERR_ASSERTION');
      assert.strictEqual(err.operator, 'strictEqual');
      assert.strictEqual(err.generatedMessage, true);
    }copy

### Class: `assert.CallTracker`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.1.0 | the `assert.CallTracker` class has been deprecated and will be removed in a future version.  
v14.2.0, v12.19.0 | Added in: v14.2.0, v12.19.0  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated

This feature is deprecated and will be removed in a future version. Please
consider using alternatives such as the `mock` helper function.

#### `new assert.CallTracker()`#

Added in: v14.2.0, v12.19.0

Creates a new `CallTracker` object which can be used to track if functions
were called a specific number of times. The `tracker.verify()` must be called
for the verification to take place. The usual pattern would be to call it in a
`process.on('exit')` handler.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    const tracker = new assert.CallTracker();
    
    function func() {}
    
    // callsfunc() must be called exactly 1 time before tracker.verify().
    const callsfunc = tracker.calls(func, 1);
    
    callsfunc();
    
    // Calls tracker.verify() and verifies if all tracker.calls() functions have
    // been called exact times.
    process.on('exit', () => {
      tracker.verify();
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const process = require('node:process');
    
    const tracker = new assert.CallTracker();
    
    function func() {}
    
    // callsfunc() must be called exactly 1 time before tracker.verify().
    const callsfunc = tracker.calls(func, 1);
    
    callsfunc();
    
    // Calls tracker.verify() and verifies if all tracker.calls() functions have
    // been called exact times.
    process.on('exit', () => {
      tracker.verify();
    });copy

#### `tracker.calls([fn][, exact])`#

Added in: v14.2.0, v12.19.0

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) **Default:** A no-op function.
  * `exact` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `1`.
  * Returns: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A function that wraps `fn`.

The wrapper function is expected to be called exactly `exact` times. If the
function has not been called exactly `exact` times when `tracker.verify()` is
called, then `tracker.verify()` will throw an error.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    
    // Creates call tracker.
    const tracker = new assert.CallTracker();
    
    function func() {}
    
    // Returns a function that wraps func() that must be called exact times
    // before tracker.verify().
    const callsfunc = tracker.calls(func);const assert = require('node:assert');
    
    // Creates call tracker.
    const tracker = new assert.CallTracker();
    
    function func() {}
    
    // Returns a function that wraps func() that must be called exact times
    // before tracker.verify().
    const callsfunc = tracker.calls(func);copy

#### `tracker.getCalls(fn)`#

Added in: v18.8.0, v16.18.0

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

  * Returns: [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array with all the calls to a tracked function.

  * Object [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

    * `thisArg` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `arguments` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) the arguments passed to the tracked function

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    
    const tracker = new assert.CallTracker();
    
    function func() {}
    const callsfunc = tracker.calls(func);
    callsfunc(1, 2, 3);
    
    assert.deepStrictEqual(tracker.getCalls(callsfunc),
                           [{ thisArg: undefined, arguments: [1, 2, 3] }]);const assert = require('node:assert');
    
    // Creates call tracker.
    const tracker = new assert.CallTracker();
    
    function func() {}
    const callsfunc = tracker.calls(func);
    callsfunc(1, 2, 3);
    
    assert.deepStrictEqual(tracker.getCalls(callsfunc),
                           [{ thisArg: undefined, arguments: [1, 2, 3] }]);copy

#### `tracker.report()`#

Added in: v14.2.0, v12.19.0

  * Returns: [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array of objects containing information about the wrapper functions returned by `tracker.calls()`.
  * Object [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `actual` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The actual number of times the function was called.
    * `expected` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of times the function was expected to be called.
    * `operator` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The name of the function that is wrapped.
    * `stack` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) A stack trace of the function.

The arrays contains information about the expected and actual number of calls
of the functions that have not been called the expected number of times.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    
    // Creates call tracker.
    const tracker = new assert.CallTracker();
    
    function func() {}
    
    // Returns a function that wraps func() that must be called exact times
    // before tracker.verify().
    const callsfunc = tracker.calls(func, 2);
    
    // Returns an array containing information on callsfunc()
    console.log(tracker.report());
    // [
    //  {
    //    message: 'Expected the func function to be executed 2 time(s) but was
    //    executed 0 time(s).',
    //    actual: 0,
    //    expected: 2,
    //    operator: 'func',
    //    stack: stack trace
    //  }
    // ]const assert = require('node:assert');
    
    // Creates call tracker.
    const tracker = new assert.CallTracker();
    
    function func() {}
    
    // Returns a function that wraps func() that must be called exact times
    // before tracker.verify().
    const callsfunc = tracker.calls(func, 2);
    
    // Returns an array containing information on callsfunc()
    console.log(tracker.report());
    // [
    //  {
    //    message: 'Expected the func function to be executed 2 time(s) but was
    //    executed 0 time(s).',
    //    actual: 0,
    //    expected: 2,
    //    operator: 'func',
    //    stack: stack trace
    //  }
    // ]copy

#### `tracker.reset([fn])`#

Added in: v18.8.0, v16.18.0

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) a tracked function to reset.

Reset calls of the call tracker. If a tracked function is passed as an
argument, the calls will be reset for it. If no arguments are passed, all
tracked functions will be reset.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    
    const tracker = new assert.CallTracker();
    
    function func() {}
    const callsfunc = tracker.calls(func);
    
    callsfunc();
    // Tracker was called once
    assert.strictEqual(tracker.getCalls(callsfunc).length, 1);
    
    tracker.reset(callsfunc);
    assert.strictEqual(tracker.getCalls(callsfunc).length, 0);const assert = require('node:assert');
    
    const tracker = new assert.CallTracker();
    
    function func() {}
    const callsfunc = tracker.calls(func);
    
    callsfunc();
    // Tracker was called once
    assert.strictEqual(tracker.getCalls(callsfunc).length, 1);
    
    tracker.reset(callsfunc);
    assert.strictEqual(tracker.getCalls(callsfunc).length, 0);copy

#### `tracker.verify()`#

Added in: v14.2.0, v12.19.0

Iterates through the list of functions passed to `tracker.calls()` and will
throw an error for functions that have not been called the expected number of
times.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    
    // Creates call tracker.
    const tracker = new assert.CallTracker();
    
    function func() {}
    
    // Returns a function that wraps func() that must be called exact times
    // before tracker.verify().
    const callsfunc = tracker.calls(func, 2);
    
    callsfunc();
    
    // Will throw an error since callsfunc() was only called once.
    tracker.verify();const assert = require('node:assert');
    
    // Creates call tracker.
    const tracker = new assert.CallTracker();
    
    function func() {}
    
    // Returns a function that wraps func() that must be called exact times
    // before tracker.verify().
    const callsfunc = tracker.calls(func, 2);
    
    callsfunc();
    
    // Will throw an error since callsfunc() was only called once.
    tracker.verify();copy

### `assert(value[, message])`#

Added in: v0.5.9

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The input that is checked for being truthy.
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

An alias of `assert.ok()`.

### `assert.deepEqual(actual, expected[, message])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.2.0, v20.15.0 | Error cause and errors properties are now compared as well.  
v18.0.0 | Regular expressions lastIndex property is now compared as well.  
v16.0.0, v14.18.0 | In Legacy assertion mode, changed status from Deprecated to Legacy.  
v14.0.0 | NaN is now treated as being identical if both sides are NaN.  
v12.0.0 | The type tags are now properly compared and there are a couple minor comparison adjustments to make the check less surprising.  
v9.0.0 | The `Error` names and messages are now properly compared.  
v8.0.0 | The `Set` and `Map` content is also compared.  
v6.4.0, v4.7.1 | Typed array slices are handled correctly now.  
v6.1.0, v4.5.0 | Objects with circular references can be used as inputs now.  
v5.10.1, v4.4.3 | Handle non-`Uint8Array` typed arrays correctly.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `actual` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `expected` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

**Strict assertion mode**

An alias of `assert.deepStrictEqual()`.

**Legacy assertion mode**

Stability: 3 \- Legacy: Use `assert.deepStrictEqual()` instead.

Tests for deep equality between the `actual` and `expected` parameters.
Consider using `assert.deepStrictEqual()` instead. `assert.deepEqual()` can
have surprising results.

_Deep equality_ means that the enumerable "own" properties of child objects
are also recursively evaluated by the following rules.

#### Comparison details#

  * Primitive values are compared with the [`==` operator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Equality), with the exception of [<NaN>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/NaN). It is treated as being identical in case both sides are [<NaN>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/NaN).
  * [Type tags](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-object.prototype.tostring) of objects should be the same.
  * Only [enumerable "own" properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Enumerability_and_ownership_of_properties) are considered.
  * [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) names, messages, causes, and errors are always compared, even if these are not enumerable properties.
  * [Object wrappers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Primitive#Primitive_wrapper_objects_in_JavaScript) are compared both as objects and unwrapped values.
  * `Object` properties are compared unordered.
  * [<Map>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map) keys and [<Set>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set) items are compared unordered.
  * Recursion stops when both sides differ or both sides encounter a circular reference.
  * Implementation does not test the [`[[Prototype]]`](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-ordinary-object-internal-methods-and-internal-slots) of objects.
  * [<Symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Symbol) properties are not compared.
  * [<WeakMap>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakMap) and [<WeakSet>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakSet) comparison does not rely on their values but only on their instances.
  * [<RegExp>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp) lastIndex, flags, and source are always compared, even if these are not enumerable properties.

The following example does not throw an `AssertionError` because the
primitives are compared using the [`==`
operator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Equality).

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    // WARNING: This does not throw an AssertionError!
    
    assert.deepEqual('+00000000', false);const assert = require('node:assert');
    // WARNING: This does not throw an AssertionError!
    
    assert.deepEqual('+00000000', false);copy

"Deep" equality means that the enumerable "own" properties of child objects
are evaluated also:

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    
    const obj1 = {
      a: {
        b: 1,
      },
    };
    const obj2 = {
      a: {
        b: 2,
      },
    };
    const obj3 = {
      a: {
        b: 1,
      },
    };
    const obj4 = { __proto__: obj1 };
    
    assert.deepEqual(obj1, obj1);
    // OK
    
    // Values of b are different:
    assert.deepEqual(obj1, obj2);
    // AssertionError: { a: { b: 1 } } deepEqual { a: { b: 2 } }
    
    assert.deepEqual(obj1, obj3);
    // OK
    
    // Prototypes are ignored:
    assert.deepEqual(obj1, obj4);
    // AssertionError: { a: { b: 1 } } deepEqual {}const assert = require('node:assert');
    
    const obj1 = {
      a: {
        b: 1,
      },
    };
    const obj2 = {
      a: {
        b: 2,
      },
    };
    const obj3 = {
      a: {
        b: 1,
      },
    };
    const obj4 = { __proto__: obj1 };
    
    assert.deepEqual(obj1, obj1);
    // OK
    
    // Values of b are different:
    assert.deepEqual(obj1, obj2);
    // AssertionError: { a: { b: 1 } } deepEqual { a: { b: 2 } }
    
    assert.deepEqual(obj1, obj3);
    // OK
    
    // Prototypes are ignored:
    assert.deepEqual(obj1, obj4);
    // AssertionError: { a: { b: 1 } } deepEqual {}copy

If the values are not equal, an `AssertionError` is thrown with a `message`
property set equal to the value of the `message` parameter. If the `message`
parameter is undefined, a default error message is assigned. If the `message`
parameter is an instance of [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) then it will be thrown
instead of the `AssertionError`.

### `assert.deepStrictEqual(actual, expected[, message])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.2.0, v20.15.0 | Error cause and errors properties are now compared as well.  
v18.0.0 | Regular expressions lastIndex property is now compared as well.  
v9.0.0 | Enumerable symbol properties are now compared.  
v9.0.0 | The `NaN` is now compared using the [SameValueZero](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-samevaluezero) comparison.  
v8.5.0 | The `Error` names and messages are now properly compared.  
v8.0.0 | The `Set` and `Map` content is also compared.  
v6.1.0 | Objects with circular references can be used as inputs now.  
v6.4.0, v4.7.1 | Typed array slices are handled correctly now.  
v5.10.1, v4.4.3 | Handle non-`Uint8Array` typed arrays correctly.  
v1.2.0 | Added in: v1.2.0  
  
  * `actual` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `expected` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Tests for deep equality between the `actual` and `expected` parameters. "Deep"
equality means that the enumerable "own" properties of child objects are
recursively evaluated also by the following rules.

#### Comparison details#

  * Primitive values are compared using [`Object.is()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/is).
  * [Type tags](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-object.prototype.tostring) of objects should be the same.
  * [`[[Prototype]]`](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-ordinary-object-internal-methods-and-internal-slots) of objects are compared using the [`===` operator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Strict_equality).
  * Only [enumerable "own" properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Enumerability_and_ownership_of_properties) are considered.
  * [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) names, messages, causes, and errors are always compared, even if these are not enumerable properties. `errors` is also compared.
  * Enumerable own [<Symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Symbol) properties are compared as well.
  * [Object wrappers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Primitive#Primitive_wrapper_objects_in_JavaScript) are compared both as objects and unwrapped values.
  * `Object` properties are compared unordered.
  * [<Map>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map) keys and [<Set>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set) items are compared unordered.
  * Recursion stops when both sides differ or both sides encounter a circular reference.
  * [<WeakMap>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakMap) and [<WeakSet>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakSet) instances are **not** compared structurally. They are only equal if they reference the same object. Any comparison between different `WeakMap` or `WeakSet` instances will result in inequality, even if they contain the same entries.
  * [<RegExp>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp) lastIndex, flags, and source are always compared, even if these are not enumerable properties.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    // This fails because 1 !== '1'.
    assert.deepStrictEqual({ a: 1 }, { a: '1' });
    // AssertionError: Expected inputs to be strictly deep-equal:
    // + actual - expected
    //
    //   {
    // +   a: 1
    // -   a: '1'
    //   }
    
    // The following objects don't have own properties
    const date = new Date();
    const object = {};
    const fakeDate = {};
    Object.setPrototypeOf(fakeDate, Date.prototype);
    
    // Different [[Prototype]]:
    assert.deepStrictEqual(object, fakeDate);
    // AssertionError: Expected inputs to be strictly deep-equal:
    // + actual - expected
    //
    // + {}
    // - Date {}
    
    // Different type tags:
    assert.deepStrictEqual(date, fakeDate);
    // AssertionError: Expected inputs to be strictly deep-equal:
    // + actual - expected
    //
    // + 2018-04-26T00:49:08.604Z
    // - Date {}
    
    assert.deepStrictEqual(NaN, NaN);
    // OK because Object.is(NaN, NaN) is true.
    
    // Different unwrapped numbers:
    assert.deepStrictEqual(new Number(1), new Number(2));
    // AssertionError: Expected inputs to be strictly deep-equal:
    // + actual - expected
    //
    // + [Number: 1]
    // - [Number: 2]
    
    assert.deepStrictEqual(new String('foo'), Object('foo'));
    // OK because the object and the string are identical when unwrapped.
    
    assert.deepStrictEqual(-0, -0);
    // OK
    
    // Different zeros:
    assert.deepStrictEqual(0, -0);
    // AssertionError: Expected inputs to be strictly deep-equal:
    // + actual - expected
    //
    // + 0
    // - -0
    
    const symbol1 = Symbol();
    const symbol2 = Symbol();
    assert.deepStrictEqual({ [symbol1]: 1 }, { [symbol1]: 1 });
    // OK, because it is the same symbol on both objects.
    
    assert.deepStrictEqual({ [symbol1]: 1 }, { [symbol2]: 1 });
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: Inputs identical but not reference equal:
    //
    // {
    //   [Symbol()]: 1
    // }
    
    const weakMap1 = new WeakMap();
    const weakMap2 = new WeakMap();
    const obj = {};
    
    weakMap1.set(obj, 'value');
    weakMap2.set(obj, 'value');
    
    // Comparing different instances fails, even with same contents
    assert.deepStrictEqual(weakMap1, weakMap2);
    // AssertionError: Values have same structure but are not reference-equal:
    //
    // WeakMap {
    //   <items unknown>
    // }
    
    // Comparing the same instance to itself succeeds
    assert.deepStrictEqual(weakMap1, weakMap1);
    // OK
    
    const weakSet1 = new WeakSet();
    const weakSet2 = new WeakSet();
    weakSet1.add(obj);
    weakSet2.add(obj);
    
    // Comparing different instances fails, even with same contents
    assert.deepStrictEqual(weakSet1, weakSet2);
    // AssertionError: Values have same structure but are not reference-equal:
    // + actual - expected
    //
    // WeakSet {
    //   <items unknown>
    // }
    
    // Comparing the same instance to itself succeeds
    assert.deepStrictEqual(weakSet1, weakSet1);
    // OKconst assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    // This fails because 1 !== '1'.
    assert.deepStrictEqual({ a: 1 }, { a: '1' });
    // AssertionError: Expected inputs to be strictly deep-equal:
    // + actual - expected
    //
    //   {
    // +   a: 1
    // -   a: '1'
    //   }
    
    // The following objects don't have own properties
    const date = new Date();
    const object = {};
    const fakeDate = {};
    Object.setPrototypeOf(fakeDate, Date.prototype);
    
    // Different [[Prototype]]:
    assert.deepStrictEqual(object, fakeDate);
    // AssertionError: Expected inputs to be strictly deep-equal:
    // + actual - expected
    //
    // + {}
    // - Date {}
    
    // Different type tags:
    assert.deepStrictEqual(date, fakeDate);
    // AssertionError: Expected inputs to be strictly deep-equal:
    // + actual - expected
    //
    // + 2018-04-26T00:49:08.604Z
    // - Date {}
    
    assert.deepStrictEqual(NaN, NaN);
    // OK because Object.is(NaN, NaN) is true.
    
    // Different unwrapped numbers:
    assert.deepStrictEqual(new Number(1), new Number(2));
    // AssertionError: Expected inputs to be strictly deep-equal:
    // + actual - expected
    //
    // + [Number: 1]
    // - [Number: 2]
    
    assert.deepStrictEqual(new String('foo'), Object('foo'));
    // OK because the object and the string are identical when unwrapped.
    
    assert.deepStrictEqual(-0, -0);
    // OK
    
    // Different zeros:
    assert.deepStrictEqual(0, -0);
    // AssertionError: Expected inputs to be strictly deep-equal:
    // + actual - expected
    //
    // + 0
    // - -0
    
    const symbol1 = Symbol();
    const symbol2 = Symbol();
    assert.deepStrictEqual({ [symbol1]: 1 }, { [symbol1]: 1 });
    // OK, because it is the same symbol on both objects.
    
    assert.deepStrictEqual({ [symbol1]: 1 }, { [symbol2]: 1 });
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: Inputs identical but not reference equal:
    //
    // {
    //   [Symbol()]: 1
    // }
    
    const weakMap1 = new WeakMap();
    const weakMap2 = new WeakMap();
    const obj = {};
    
    weakMap1.set(obj, 'value');
    weakMap2.set(obj, 'value');
    
    // Comparing different instances fails, even with same contents
    assert.deepStrictEqual(weakMap1, weakMap2);
    // AssertionError: Values have same structure but are not reference-equal:
    //
    // WeakMap {
    //   <items unknown>
    // }
    
    // Comparing the same instance to itself succeeds
    assert.deepStrictEqual(weakMap1, weakMap1);
    // OK
    
    const weakSet1 = new WeakSet();
    const weakSet2 = new WeakSet();
    weakSet1.add(obj);
    weakSet2.add(obj);
    
    // Comparing different instances fails, even with same contents
    assert.deepStrictEqual(weakSet1, weakSet2);
    // AssertionError: Values have same structure but are not reference-equal:
    // + actual - expected
    //
    // WeakSet {
    //   <items unknown>
    // }
    
    // Comparing the same instance to itself succeeds
    assert.deepStrictEqual(weakSet1, weakSet1);
    // OKcopy

If the values are not equal, an `AssertionError` is thrown with a `message`
property set equal to the value of the `message` parameter. If the `message`
parameter is undefined, a default error message is assigned. If the `message`
parameter is an instance of [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) then it will be thrown
instead of the `AssertionError`.

### `assert.doesNotMatch(string, regexp[, message])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | This API is no longer experimental.  
v13.6.0, v12.16.0 | Added in: v13.6.0, v12.16.0  
  
  * `string` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `regexp` [<RegExp>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp)
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Expects the `string` input not to match the regular expression.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    assert.doesNotMatch('I will fail', /fail/);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: The input was expected to not match the ...
    
    assert.doesNotMatch(123, /pass/);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: The "string" argument must be of type string.
    
    assert.doesNotMatch('I will pass', /different/);
    // OKconst assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.doesNotMatch('I will fail', /fail/);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: The input was expected to not match the ...
    
    assert.doesNotMatch(123, /pass/);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: The "string" argument must be of type string.
    
    assert.doesNotMatch('I will pass', /different/);
    // OKcopy

If the values do match, or if the `string` argument is of another type than
`string`, an `AssertionError` is thrown with a `message` property set equal to
the value of the `message` parameter. If the `message` parameter is undefined,
a default error message is assigned. If the `message` parameter is an instance
of [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) then it will be thrown
instead of the `AssertionError`.

### `assert.doesNotReject(asyncFn[, error][, message])`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `asyncFn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)
  * `error` [<RegExp>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp) | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Awaits the `asyncFn` promise or, if `asyncFn` is a function, immediately calls
the function and awaits the returned promise to complete. It will then check
that the promise is not rejected.

If `asyncFn` is a function and it throws an error synchronously,
`assert.doesNotReject()` will return a rejected `Promise` with that error. If
the function does not return a promise, `assert.doesNotReject()` will return a
rejected `Promise` with an `ERR_INVALID_RETURN_VALUE` error. In both cases the
error handler is skipped.

Using `assert.doesNotReject()` is actually not useful because there is little
benefit in catching a rejection and then rejecting it again. Instead, consider
adding a comment next to the specific code path that should not reject and
keep error messages as expressive as possible.

If specified, `error` can be a [`Class`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes),
[<RegExp>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp) or a validation
function. See `assert.throws()` for more details.

Besides the async nature to await the completion behaves identically to
`assert.doesNotThrow()`.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    await assert.doesNotReject(
      async () => {
        throw new TypeError('Wrong value');
      },
      SyntaxError,
    );const assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    (async () => {
      await assert.doesNotReject(
        async () => {
          throw new TypeError('Wrong value');
        },
        SyntaxError,
      );
    })();copy
    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    assert.doesNotReject(Promise.reject(new TypeError('Wrong value')))
      .then(() => {
        // ...
      });const assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.doesNotReject(Promise.reject(new TypeError('Wrong value')))
      .then(() => {
        // ...
      });copy

### `assert.doesNotThrow(fn[, error][, message])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v5.11.0, v4.4.5 | The `message` parameter is respected now.  
v4.2.0 | The `error` parameter can now be an arrow function.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * `error` [<RegExp>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp) | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Asserts that the function `fn` does not throw an error.

Using `assert.doesNotThrow()` is actually not useful because there is no
benefit in catching an error and then rethrowing it. Instead, consider adding
a comment next to the specific code path that should not throw and keep error
messages as expressive as possible.

When `assert.doesNotThrow()` is called, it will immediately call the `fn`
function.

If an error is thrown and it is the same type as that specified by the `error`
parameter, then an `AssertionError` is thrown. If the error is of a different
type, or if the `error` parameter is undefined, the error is propagated back
to the caller.

If specified, `error` can be a [`Class`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes),
[<RegExp>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp), or a validation
function. See `assert.throws()` for more details.

The following, for instance, will throw the
[<TypeError>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypeError) because there is no
matching error type in the assertion:

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    assert.doesNotThrow(
      () => {
        throw new TypeError('Wrong value');
      },
      SyntaxError,
    );const assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.doesNotThrow(
      () => {
        throw new TypeError('Wrong value');
      },
      SyntaxError,
    );copy

However, the following will result in an `AssertionError` with the message
'Got unwanted exception...':

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    assert.doesNotThrow(
      () => {
        throw new TypeError('Wrong value');
      },
      TypeError,
    );const assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.doesNotThrow(
      () => {
        throw new TypeError('Wrong value');
      },
      TypeError,
    );copy

If an `AssertionError` is thrown and a value is provided for the `message`
parameter, the value of `message` will be appended to the `AssertionError`
message:

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    assert.doesNotThrow(
      () => {
        throw new TypeError('Wrong value');
      },
      /Wrong value/,
      'Whoops',
    );
    // Throws: AssertionError: Got unwanted exception: Whoopsconst assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.doesNotThrow(
      () => {
        throw new TypeError('Wrong value');
      },
      /Wrong value/,
      'Whoops',
    );
    // Throws: AssertionError: Got unwanted exception: Whoopscopy

### `assert.equal(actual, expected[, message])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0, v14.18.0 | In Legacy assertion mode, changed status from Deprecated to Legacy.  
v14.0.0 | NaN is now treated as being identical if both sides are NaN.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `actual` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `expected` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

**Strict assertion mode**

An alias of `assert.strictEqual()`.

**Legacy assertion mode**

Stability: 3 \- Legacy: Use `assert.strictEqual()` instead.

Tests shallow, coercive equality between the `actual` and `expected`
parameters using the [`==` operator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Equality). `NaN` is specially
handled and treated as being identical if both sides are `NaN`.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    
    assert.equal(1, 1);
    // OK, 1 == 1
    assert.equal(1, '1');
    // OK, 1 == '1'
    assert.equal(NaN, NaN);
    // OK
    
    assert.equal(1, 2);
    // AssertionError: 1 == 2
    assert.equal({ a: { b: 1 } }, { a: { b: 1 } });
    // AssertionError: { a: { b: 1 } } == { a: { b: 1 } }const assert = require('node:assert');
    
    assert.equal(1, 1);
    // OK, 1 == 1
    assert.equal(1, '1');
    // OK, 1 == '1'
    assert.equal(NaN, NaN);
    // OK
    
    assert.equal(1, 2);
    // AssertionError: 1 == 2
    assert.equal({ a: { b: 1 } }, { a: { b: 1 } });
    // AssertionError: { a: { b: 1 } } == { a: { b: 1 } }copy

If the values are not equal, an `AssertionError` is thrown with a `message`
property set equal to the value of the `message` parameter. If the `message`
parameter is undefined, a default error message is assigned. If the `message`
parameter is an instance of [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) then it will be thrown
instead of the `AssertionError`.

### `assert.fail([message])`#

Added in: v0.1.21

  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) **Default:** `'Failed'`

Throws an `AssertionError` with the provided error message or a default error
message. If the `message` parameter is an instance of
[<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) then it will be thrown
instead of the `AssertionError`.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    assert.fail();
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: Failed
    
    assert.fail('boom');
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: boom
    
    assert.fail(new TypeError('need array'));
    // TypeError: need arrayconst assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.fail();
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: Failed
    
    assert.fail('boom');
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: boom
    
    assert.fail(new TypeError('need array'));
    // TypeError: need arraycopy

Using `assert.fail()` with more than two arguments is possible but deprecated.
See below for further details.

### `assert.fail(actual, expected[, message[, operator[, stackStartFn]]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Calling `assert.fail()` with more than one argument is deprecated and emits a warning.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `assert.fail([message])` or other assert
functions instead.

  * `actual` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `expected` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
  * `operator` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'!='`
  * `stackStartFn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) **Default:** `assert.fail`

If `message` is falsy, the error message is set as the values of `actual` and
`expected` separated by the provided `operator`. If just the two `actual` and
`expected` arguments are provided, `operator` will default to `'!='`. If
`message` is provided as third argument it will be used as the error message
and the other arguments will be stored as properties on the thrown object. If
`stackStartFn` is provided, all stack frames above that function will be
removed from stacktrace (see `Error.captureStackTrace`). If no arguments are
given, the default message `Failed` will be used.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    assert.fail('a', 'b');
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: 'a' != 'b'
    
    assert.fail(1, 2, undefined, '>');
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: 1 > 2
    
    assert.fail(1, 2, 'fail');
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: fail
    
    assert.fail(1, 2, 'whoops', '>');
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: whoops
    
    assert.fail(1, 2, new TypeError('need array'));
    // TypeError: need arrayconst assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.fail('a', 'b');
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: 'a' != 'b'
    
    assert.fail(1, 2, undefined, '>');
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: 1 > 2
    
    assert.fail(1, 2, 'fail');
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: fail
    
    assert.fail(1, 2, 'whoops', '>');
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: whoops
    
    assert.fail(1, 2, new TypeError('need array'));
    // TypeError: need arraycopy

In the last three cases `actual`, `expected`, and `operator` have no influence
on the error message.

Example use of `stackStartFn` for truncating the exception's stacktrace:

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    function suppressFrame() {
      assert.fail('a', 'b', undefined, '!==', suppressFrame);
    }
    suppressFrame();
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: 'a' !== 'b'
    //     at repl:1:1
    //     at ContextifyScript.Script.runInThisContext (vm.js:44:33)
    //     ...const assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    function suppressFrame() {
      assert.fail('a', 'b', undefined, '!==', suppressFrame);
    }
    suppressFrame();
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: 'a' !== 'b'
    //     at repl:1:1
    //     at ContextifyScript.Script.runInThisContext (vm.js:44:33)
    //     ...copy

### `assert.ifError(value)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Instead of throwing the original error it is now wrapped into an [`AssertionError`][] that contains the full stack trace.  
v10.0.0 | Value may now only be `undefined` or `null`. Before all falsy values were handled the same as `null` and did not throw.  
v0.1.97 | Added in: v0.1.97  
  
  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Throws `value` if `value` is not `undefined` or `null`. This is useful when
testing the `error` argument in callbacks. The stack trace contains all frames
from the error passed to `ifError()` including the potential new frames for
`ifError()` itself.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    assert.ifError(null);
    // OK
    assert.ifError(0);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: ifError got unwanted exception: 0
    assert.ifError('error');
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: ifError got unwanted exception: 'error'
    assert.ifError(new Error());
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: ifError got unwanted exception: Error
    
    // Create some random error frames.
    let err;
    (function errorFrame() {
      err = new Error('test error');
    })();
    
    (function ifErrorFrame() {
      assert.ifError(err);
    })();
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: ifError got unwanted exception: test error
    //     at ifErrorFrame
    //     at errorFrameconst assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.ifError(null);
    // OK
    assert.ifError(0);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: ifError got unwanted exception: 0
    assert.ifError('error');
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: ifError got unwanted exception: 'error'
    assert.ifError(new Error());
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: ifError got unwanted exception: Error
    
    // Create some random error frames.
    let err;
    (function errorFrame() {
      err = new Error('test error');
    })();
    
    (function ifErrorFrame() {
      assert.ifError(err);
    })();
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: ifError got unwanted exception: test error
    //     at ifErrorFrame
    //     at errorFramecopy

### `assert.match(string, regexp[, message])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | This API is no longer experimental.  
v13.6.0, v12.16.0 | Added in: v13.6.0, v12.16.0  
  
  * `string` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `regexp` [<RegExp>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp)
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Expects the `string` input to match the regular expression.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    assert.match('I will fail', /pass/);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: The input did not match the regular ...
    
    assert.match(123, /pass/);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: The "string" argument must be of type string.
    
    assert.match('I will pass', /pass/);
    // OKconst assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.match('I will fail', /pass/);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: The input did not match the regular ...
    
    assert.match(123, /pass/);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: The "string" argument must be of type string.
    
    assert.match('I will pass', /pass/);
    // OKcopy

If the values do not match, or if the `string` argument is of another type
than `string`, an `AssertionError` is thrown with a `message` property set
equal to the value of the `message` parameter. If the `message` parameter is
undefined, a default error message is assigned. If the `message` parameter is
an instance of [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) then it will be thrown
instead of the `AssertionError`.

### `assert.notDeepEqual(actual, expected[, message])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0, v14.18.0 | In Legacy assertion mode, changed status from Deprecated to Legacy.  
v14.0.0 | NaN is now treated as being identical if both sides are NaN.  
v9.0.0 | The `Error` names and messages are now properly compared.  
v8.0.0 | The `Set` and `Map` content is also compared.  
v6.4.0, v4.7.1 | Typed array slices are handled correctly now.  
v6.1.0, v4.5.0 | Objects with circular references can be used as inputs now.  
v5.10.1, v4.4.3 | Handle non-`Uint8Array` typed arrays correctly.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `actual` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `expected` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

**Strict assertion mode**

An alias of `assert.notDeepStrictEqual()`.

**Legacy assertion mode**

Stability: 3 \- Legacy: Use `assert.notDeepStrictEqual()` instead.

Tests for any deep inequality. Opposite of `assert.deepEqual()`.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    
    const obj1 = {
      a: {
        b: 1,
      },
    };
    const obj2 = {
      a: {
        b: 2,
      },
    };
    const obj3 = {
      a: {
        b: 1,
      },
    };
    const obj4 = { __proto__: obj1 };
    
    assert.notDeepEqual(obj1, obj1);
    // AssertionError: { a: { b: 1 } } notDeepEqual { a: { b: 1 } }
    
    assert.notDeepEqual(obj1, obj2);
    // OK
    
    assert.notDeepEqual(obj1, obj3);
    // AssertionError: { a: { b: 1 } } notDeepEqual { a: { b: 1 } }
    
    assert.notDeepEqual(obj1, obj4);
    // OKconst assert = require('node:assert');
    
    const obj1 = {
      a: {
        b: 1,
      },
    };
    const obj2 = {
      a: {
        b: 2,
      },
    };
    const obj3 = {
      a: {
        b: 1,
      },
    };
    const obj4 = { __proto__: obj1 };
    
    assert.notDeepEqual(obj1, obj1);
    // AssertionError: { a: { b: 1 } } notDeepEqual { a: { b: 1 } }
    
    assert.notDeepEqual(obj1, obj2);
    // OK
    
    assert.notDeepEqual(obj1, obj3);
    // AssertionError: { a: { b: 1 } } notDeepEqual { a: { b: 1 } }
    
    assert.notDeepEqual(obj1, obj4);
    // OKcopy

If the values are deeply equal, an `AssertionError` is thrown with a `message`
property set equal to the value of the `message` parameter. If the `message`
parameter is undefined, a default error message is assigned. If the `message`
parameter is an instance of [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) then it will be thrown
instead of the `AssertionError`.

### `assert.notDeepStrictEqual(actual, expected[, message])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.0.0 | The `-0` and `+0` are not considered equal anymore.  
v9.0.0 | The `NaN` is now compared using the [SameValueZero](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-samevaluezero) comparison.  
v9.0.0 | The `Error` names and messages are now properly compared.  
v8.0.0 | The `Set` and `Map` content is also compared.  
v6.1.0 | Objects with circular references can be used as inputs now.  
v6.4.0, v4.7.1 | Typed array slices are handled correctly now.  
v5.10.1, v4.4.3 | Handle non-`Uint8Array` typed arrays correctly.  
v1.2.0 | Added in: v1.2.0  
  
  * `actual` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `expected` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Tests for deep strict inequality. Opposite of `assert.deepStrictEqual()`.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    assert.notDeepStrictEqual({ a: 1 }, { a: '1' });
    // OKconst assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.notDeepStrictEqual({ a: 1 }, { a: '1' });
    // OKcopy

If the values are deeply and strictly equal, an `AssertionError` is thrown
with a `message` property set equal to the value of the `message` parameter.
If the `message` parameter is undefined, a default error message is assigned.
If the `message` parameter is an instance of
[<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) then it will be thrown
instead of the `AssertionError`.

### `assert.notEqual(actual, expected[, message])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0, v14.18.0 | In Legacy assertion mode, changed status from Deprecated to Legacy.  
v14.0.0 | NaN is now treated as being identical if both sides are NaN.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `actual` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `expected` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

**Strict assertion mode**

An alias of `assert.notStrictEqual()`.

**Legacy assertion mode**

Stability: 3 \- Legacy: Use `assert.notStrictEqual()` instead.

Tests shallow, coercive inequality with the [`!=`
operator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Inequality). `NaN` is specially
handled and treated as being identical if both sides are `NaN`.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    
    assert.notEqual(1, 2);
    // OK
    
    assert.notEqual(1, 1);
    // AssertionError: 1 != 1
    
    assert.notEqual(1, '1');
    // AssertionError: 1 != '1'const assert = require('node:assert');
    
    assert.notEqual(1, 2);
    // OK
    
    assert.notEqual(1, 1);
    // AssertionError: 1 != 1
    
    assert.notEqual(1, '1');
    // AssertionError: 1 != '1'copy

If the values are equal, an `AssertionError` is thrown with a `message`
property set equal to the value of the `message` parameter. If the `message`
parameter is undefined, a default error message is assigned. If the `message`
parameter is an instance of [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) then it will be thrown
instead of the `AssertionError`.

### `assert.notStrictEqual(actual, expected[, message])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Used comparison changed from Strict Equality to `Object.is()`.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `actual` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `expected` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Tests strict inequality between the `actual` and `expected` parameters as
determined by [`Object.is()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/is).

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    assert.notStrictEqual(1, 2);
    // OK
    
    assert.notStrictEqual(1, 1);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: Expected "actual" to be strictly unequal to:
    //
    // 1
    
    assert.notStrictEqual(1, '1');
    // OKconst assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.notStrictEqual(1, 2);
    // OK
    
    assert.notStrictEqual(1, 1);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: Expected "actual" to be strictly unequal to:
    //
    // 1
    
    assert.notStrictEqual(1, '1');
    // OKcopy

If the values are strictly equal, an `AssertionError` is thrown with a
`message` property set equal to the value of the `message` parameter. If the
`message` parameter is undefined, a default error message is assigned. If the
`message` parameter is an instance of
[<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) then it will be thrown
instead of the `AssertionError`.

### `assert.ok(value[, message])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | The `assert.ok()` (no arguments) will now use a predefined error message.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Tests if `value` is truthy. It is equivalent to `assert.equal(!!value, true,
message)`.

If `value` is not truthy, an `AssertionError` is thrown with a `message`
property set equal to the value of the `message` parameter. If the `message`
parameter is `undefined`, a default error message is assigned. If the
`message` parameter is an instance of
[<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) then it will be thrown
instead of the `AssertionError`. If no arguments are passed in at all
`message` will be set to the string: `'No value argument passed to
`assert.ok()`'`.

Be aware that in the `repl` the error message will be different to the one
thrown in a file! See below for further details.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    assert.ok(true);
    // OK
    assert.ok(1);
    // OK
    
    assert.ok();
    // AssertionError: No value argument passed to `assert.ok()`
    
    assert.ok(false, 'it\'s false');
    // AssertionError: it's false
    
    // In the repl:
    assert.ok(typeof 123 === 'string');
    // AssertionError: false == true
    
    // In a file (e.g. test.js):
    assert.ok(typeof 123 === 'string');
    // AssertionError: The expression evaluated to a falsy value:
    //
    //   assert.ok(typeof 123 === 'string')
    
    assert.ok(false);
    // AssertionError: The expression evaluated to a falsy value:
    //
    //   assert.ok(false)
    
    assert.ok(0);
    // AssertionError: The expression evaluated to a falsy value:
    //
    //   assert.ok(0)const assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.ok(true);
    // OK
    assert.ok(1);
    // OK
    
    assert.ok();
    // AssertionError: No value argument passed to `assert.ok()`
    
    assert.ok(false, 'it\'s false');
    // AssertionError: it's false
    
    // In the repl:
    assert.ok(typeof 123 === 'string');
    // AssertionError: false == true
    
    // In a file (e.g. test.js):
    assert.ok(typeof 123 === 'string');
    // AssertionError: The expression evaluated to a falsy value:
    //
    //   assert.ok(typeof 123 === 'string')
    
    assert.ok(false);
    // AssertionError: The expression evaluated to a falsy value:
    //
    //   assert.ok(false)
    
    assert.ok(0);
    // AssertionError: The expression evaluated to a falsy value:
    //
    //   assert.ok(0)copy
    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    // Using `assert()` works the same:
    assert(0);
    // AssertionError: The expression evaluated to a falsy value:
    //
    //   assert(0)const assert = require('node:assert');
    
    // Using `assert()` works the same:
    assert(0);
    // AssertionError: The expression evaluated to a falsy value:
    //
    //   assert(0)copy

### `assert.rejects(asyncFn[, error][, message])`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `asyncFn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)
  * `error` [<RegExp>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp) | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Awaits the `asyncFn` promise or, if `asyncFn` is a function, immediately calls
the function and awaits the returned promise to complete. It will then check
that the promise is rejected.

If `asyncFn` is a function and it throws an error synchronously,
`assert.rejects()` will return a rejected `Promise` with that error. If the
function does not return a promise, `assert.rejects()` will return a rejected
`Promise` with an `ERR_INVALID_RETURN_VALUE` error. In both cases the error
handler is skipped.

Besides the async nature to await the completion behaves identically to
`assert.throws()`.

If specified, `error` can be a [`Class`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes),
[<RegExp>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp), a validation
function, an object where each property will be tested for, or an instance of
error where each property will be tested for including the non-enumerable
`message` and `name` properties.

If specified, `message` will be the message provided by the `AssertionError`
if the `asyncFn` fails to reject.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    await assert.rejects(
      async () => {
        throw new TypeError('Wrong value');
      },
      {
        name: 'TypeError',
        message: 'Wrong value',
      },
    );const assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    (async () => {
      await assert.rejects(
        async () => {
          throw new TypeError('Wrong value');
        },
        {
          name: 'TypeError',
          message: 'Wrong value',
        },
      );
    })();copy
    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    await assert.rejects(
      async () => {
        throw new TypeError('Wrong value');
      },
      (err) => {
        assert.strictEqual(err.name, 'TypeError');
        assert.strictEqual(err.message, 'Wrong value');
        return true;
      },
    );const assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    (async () => {
      await assert.rejects(
        async () => {
          throw new TypeError('Wrong value');
        },
        (err) => {
          assert.strictEqual(err.name, 'TypeError');
          assert.strictEqual(err.message, 'Wrong value');
          return true;
        },
      );
    })();copy
    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    assert.rejects(
      Promise.reject(new Error('Wrong value')),
      Error,
    ).then(() => {
      // ...
    });const assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.rejects(
      Promise.reject(new Error('Wrong value')),
      Error,
    ).then(() => {
      // ...
    });copy

`error` cannot be a string. If a string is provided as the second argument,
then `error` is assumed to be omitted and the string will be used for
`message` instead. This can lead to easy-to-miss mistakes. Please read the
example in `assert.throws()` carefully if using a string as the second
argument gets considered.

### `assert.strictEqual(actual, expected[, message])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Used comparison changed from Strict Equality to `Object.is()`.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `actual` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `expected` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Tests strict equality between the `actual` and `expected` parameters as
determined by [`Object.is()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/is).

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    assert.strictEqual(1, 2);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: Expected inputs to be strictly equal:
    //
    // 1 !== 2
    
    assert.strictEqual(1, 1);
    // OK
    
    assert.strictEqual('Hello foobar', 'Hello World!');
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: Expected inputs to be strictly equal:
    // + actual - expected
    //
    // + 'Hello foobar'
    // - 'Hello World!'
    //          ^
    
    const apples = 1;
    const oranges = 2;
    assert.strictEqual(apples, oranges, `apples ${apples} !== oranges ${oranges}`);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: apples 1 !== oranges 2
    
    assert.strictEqual(1, '1', new TypeError('Inputs are not identical'));
    // TypeError: Inputs are not identicalconst assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.strictEqual(1, 2);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: Expected inputs to be strictly equal:
    //
    // 1 !== 2
    
    assert.strictEqual(1, 1);
    // OK
    
    assert.strictEqual('Hello foobar', 'Hello World!');
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: Expected inputs to be strictly equal:
    // + actual - expected
    //
    // + 'Hello foobar'
    // - 'Hello World!'
    //          ^
    
    const apples = 1;
    const oranges = 2;
    assert.strictEqual(apples, oranges, `apples ${apples} !== oranges ${oranges}`);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: apples 1 !== oranges 2
    
    assert.strictEqual(1, '1', new TypeError('Inputs are not identical'));
    // TypeError: Inputs are not identicalcopy

If the values are not strictly equal, an `AssertionError` is thrown with a
`message` property set equal to the value of the `message` parameter. If the
`message` parameter is undefined, a default error message is assigned. If the
`message` parameter is an instance of
[<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) then it will be thrown
instead of the `AssertionError`.

### `assert.throws(fn[, error][, message])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.2.0 | The `error` parameter can be an object containing regular expressions now.  
v9.9.0 | The `error` parameter can now be an object as well.  
v4.2.0 | The `error` parameter can now be an arrow function.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * `error` [<RegExp>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp) | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Expects the function `fn` to throw an error.

If specified, `error` can be a [`Class`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes),
[<RegExp>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp), a validation
function, a validation object where each property will be tested for strict
deep equality, or an instance of error where each property will be tested for
strict deep equality including the non-enumerable `message` and `name`
properties. When using an object, it is also possible to use a regular
expression, when validating against a string property. See below for examples.

If specified, `message` will be appended to the message provided by the
`AssertionError` if the `fn` call fails to throw or in case the error
validation fails.

Custom validation object/error instance:

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    const err = new TypeError('Wrong value');
    err.code = 404;
    err.foo = 'bar';
    err.info = {
      nested: true,
      baz: 'text',
    };
    err.reg = /abc/i;
    
    assert.throws(
      () => {
        throw err;
      },
      {
        name: 'TypeError',
        message: 'Wrong value',
        info: {
          nested: true,
          baz: 'text',
        },
        // Only properties on the validation object will be tested for.
        // Using nested objects requires all properties to be present. Otherwise
        // the validation is going to fail.
      },
    );
    
    // Using regular expressions to validate error properties:
    assert.throws(
      () => {
        throw err;
      },
      {
        // The `name` and `message` properties are strings and using regular
        // expressions on those will match against the string. If they fail, an
        // error is thrown.
        name: /^TypeError$/,
        message: /Wrong/,
        foo: 'bar',
        info: {
          nested: true,
          // It is not possible to use regular expressions for nested properties!
          baz: 'text',
        },
        // The `reg` property contains a regular expression and only if the
        // validation object contains an identical regular expression, it is going
        // to pass.
        reg: /abc/i,
      },
    );
    
    // Fails due to the different `message` and `name` properties:
    assert.throws(
      () => {
        const otherErr = new Error('Not found');
        // Copy all enumerable properties from `err` to `otherErr`.
        for (const [key, value] of Object.entries(err)) {
          otherErr[key] = value;
        }
        throw otherErr;
      },
      // The error's `message` and `name` properties will also be checked when using
      // an error as validation object.
      err,
    );const assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    const err = new TypeError('Wrong value');
    err.code = 404;
    err.foo = 'bar';
    err.info = {
      nested: true,
      baz: 'text',
    };
    err.reg = /abc/i;
    
    assert.throws(
      () => {
        throw err;
      },
      {
        name: 'TypeError',
        message: 'Wrong value',
        info: {
          nested: true,
          baz: 'text',
        },
        // Only properties on the validation object will be tested for.
        // Using nested objects requires all properties to be present. Otherwise
        // the validation is going to fail.
      },
    );
    
    // Using regular expressions to validate error properties:
    assert.throws(
      () => {
        throw err;
      },
      {
        // The `name` and `message` properties are strings and using regular
        // expressions on those will match against the string. If they fail, an
        // error is thrown.
        name: /^TypeError$/,
        message: /Wrong/,
        foo: 'bar',
        info: {
          nested: true,
          // It is not possible to use regular expressions for nested properties!
          baz: 'text',
        },
        // The `reg` property contains a regular expression and only if the
        // validation object contains an identical regular expression, it is going
        // to pass.
        reg: /abc/i,
      },
    );
    
    // Fails due to the different `message` and `name` properties:
    assert.throws(
      () => {
        const otherErr = new Error('Not found');
        // Copy all enumerable properties from `err` to `otherErr`.
        for (const [key, value] of Object.entries(err)) {
          otherErr[key] = value;
        }
        throw otherErr;
      },
      // The error's `message` and `name` properties will also be checked when using
      // an error as validation object.
      err,
    );copy

Validate instanceof using constructor:

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    assert.throws(
      () => {
        throw new Error('Wrong value');
      },
      Error,
    );const assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.throws(
      () => {
        throw new Error('Wrong value');
      },
      Error,
    );copy

Validate error message using [<RegExp>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp):

Using a regular expression runs `.toString` on the error object, and will
therefore also include the error name.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    assert.throws(
      () => {
        throw new Error('Wrong value');
      },
      /^Error: Wrong value$/,
    );const assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.throws(
      () => {
        throw new Error('Wrong value');
      },
      /^Error: Wrong value$/,
    );copy

Custom error validation:

The function must return `true` to indicate all internal validations passed.
It will otherwise fail with an `AssertionError`.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    assert.throws(
      () => {
        throw new Error('Wrong value');
      },
      (err) => {
        assert(err instanceof Error);
        assert(/value/.test(err));
        // Avoid returning anything from validation functions besides `true`.
        // Otherwise, it's not clear what part of the validation failed. Instead,
        // throw an error about the specific validation that failed (as done in this
        // example) and add as much helpful debugging information to that error as
        // possible.
        return true;
      },
      'unexpected error',
    );const assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    assert.throws(
      () => {
        throw new Error('Wrong value');
      },
      (err) => {
        assert(err instanceof Error);
        assert(/value/.test(err));
        // Avoid returning anything from validation functions besides `true`.
        // Otherwise, it's not clear what part of the validation failed. Instead,
        // throw an error about the specific validation that failed (as done in this
        // example) and add as much helpful debugging information to that error as
        // possible.
        return true;
      },
      'unexpected error',
    );copy

`error` cannot be a string. If a string is provided as the second argument,
then `error` is assumed to be omitted and the string will be used for
`message` instead. This can lead to easy-to-miss mistakes. Using the same
message as the thrown error message is going to result in an
`ERR_AMBIGUOUS_ARGUMENT` error. Please read the example below carefully if
using a string as the second argument gets considered:

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert/strict';
    
    function throwingFirst() {
      throw new Error('First');
    }
    
    function throwingSecond() {
      throw new Error('Second');
    }
    
    function notThrowing() {}
    
    // The second argument is a string and the input function threw an Error.
    // The first case will not throw as it does not match for the error message
    // thrown by the input function!
    assert.throws(throwingFirst, 'Second');
    // In the next example the message has no benefit over the message from the
    // error and since it is not clear if the user intended to actually match
    // against the error message, Node.js throws an `ERR_AMBIGUOUS_ARGUMENT` error.
    assert.throws(throwingSecond, 'Second');
    // TypeError [ERR_AMBIGUOUS_ARGUMENT]
    
    // The string is only used (as message) in case the function does not throw:
    assert.throws(notThrowing, 'Second');
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: Missing expected exception: Second
    
    // If it was intended to match for the error message do this instead:
    // It does not throw because the error messages match.
    assert.throws(throwingSecond, /Second$/);
    
    // If the error message does not match, an AssertionError is thrown.
    assert.throws(throwingFirst, /Second$/);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]const assert = require('node:assert/strict');
    
    function throwingFirst() {
      throw new Error('First');
    }
    
    function throwingSecond() {
      throw new Error('Second');
    }
    
    function notThrowing() {}
    
    // The second argument is a string and the input function threw an Error.
    // The first case will not throw as it does not match for the error message
    // thrown by the input function!
    assert.throws(throwingFirst, 'Second');
    // In the next example the message has no benefit over the message from the
    // error and since it is not clear if the user intended to actually match
    // against the error message, Node.js throws an `ERR_AMBIGUOUS_ARGUMENT` error.
    assert.throws(throwingSecond, 'Second');
    // TypeError [ERR_AMBIGUOUS_ARGUMENT]
    
    // The string is only used (as message) in case the function does not throw:
    assert.throws(notThrowing, 'Second');
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]: Missing expected exception: Second
    
    // If it was intended to match for the error message do this instead:
    // It does not throw because the error messages match.
    assert.throws(throwingSecond, /Second$/);
    
    // If the error message does not match, an AssertionError is thrown.
    assert.throws(throwingFirst, /Second$/);
    // AssertionError [ERR_ASSERTION]copy

Due to the confusing error-prone notation, avoid a string as the second
argument.

### `assert.partialDeepStrictEqual(actual, expected[, message])`#

Added in: v23.4.0

Stability: 1.0 - Early development

  * `actual` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `expected` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

`assert.partialDeepStrictEqual()` Asserts the equivalence between the `actual`
and `expected` parameters through a deep comparison, ensuring that all
properties in the `expected` parameter are present in the `actual` parameter
with equivalent values, not allowing type coercion. The main difference with
`assert.deepStrictEqual()` is that `assert.partialDeepStrictEqual()` does not
require all properties in the `actual` parameter to be present in the
`expected` parameter. This method should always pass the same test cases as
`assert.deepStrictEqual()`, behaving as a super set of it.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual({ a: 1, b: 2 }, { a: 1, b: 2 });
    // OK
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual({ a: { b: { c: 1 } } }, { a: { b: { c: 1 } } });
    // OK
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual({ a: 1, b: 2, c: 3 }, { a: 1, b: 2 });
    // OK
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual(new Set(['value1', 'value2']), new Set(['value1', 'value2']));
    // OK
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual(new Map([['key1', 'value1']]), new Map([['key1', 'value1']]));
    // OK
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual(new Uint8Array([1, 2, 3]), new Uint8Array([1, 2, 3]));
    // OK
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual(/abc/, /abc/);
    // OK
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual([{ a: 5 }, { b: 5 }], [{ a: 5 }]);
    // OK
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual(new Set([{ a: 1 }, { b: 1 }]), new Set([{ a: 1 }]));
    // OK
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual(new Date(0), new Date(0));
    // OK
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual({ a: 1 }, { a: 1, b: 2 });
    // AssertionError
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual({ a: 1, b: '2' }, { a: 1, b: 2 });
    // AssertionError
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual({ a: { b: 2 } }, { a: { b: '2' } });
    // AssertionErrorconst assert = require('node:assert');
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual({ a: 1, b: 2 }, { a: 1, b: 2 });
    // OK
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual({ a: { b: { c: 1 } } }, { a: { b: { c: 1 } } });
    // OK
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual({ a: 1, b: 2, c: 3 }, { a: 1, b: 2 });
    // OK
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual([{ a: 5 }, { b: 5 }], [{ a: 5 }]);
    // OK
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual(new Set([{ a: 1 }, { b: 1 }]), new Set([{ a: 1 }]));
    // OK
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual({ a: 1 }, { a: 1, b: 2 });
    // AssertionError
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual({ a: 1, b: '2' }, { a: 1, b: 2 });
    // AssertionError
    
    assert.partialDeepStrictEqual({ a: { b: 2 } }, { a: { b: '2' } });
    // AssertionErrorcopy

## Asynchronous context tracking#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/async_hooks.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/async_hooks.js)

### Introduction#

These classes are used to associate state and propagate it throughout
callbacks and promise chains. They allow storing data throughout the lifetime
of a web request or any other asynchronous duration. It is similar to thread-
local storage in other languages.

The `AsyncLocalStorage` and `AsyncResource` classes are part of the
`node:async_hooks` module:

    
    
    import { AsyncLocalStorage, AsyncResource } from 'node:async_hooks';const { AsyncLocalStorage, AsyncResource } = require('node:async_hooks');copy

### Class: `AsyncLocalStorage`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.4.0 | AsyncLocalStorage is now Stable. Previously, it had been Experimental.  
v13.10.0, v12.17.0 | Added in: v13.10.0, v12.17.0  
  
This class creates stores that stay coherent through asynchronous operations.

While you can create your own implementation on top of the `node:async_hooks`
module, `AsyncLocalStorage` should be preferred as it is a performant and
memory safe implementation that involves significant optimizations that are
non-obvious to implement.

The following example uses `AsyncLocalStorage` to build a simple logger that
assigns IDs to incoming HTTP requests and includes them in messages logged
within each request.

    
    
    import http from 'node:http';
    import { AsyncLocalStorage } from 'node:async_hooks';
    
    const asyncLocalStorage = new AsyncLocalStorage();
    
    function logWithId(msg) {
      const id = asyncLocalStorage.getStore();
      console.log(`${id !== undefined ? id : '-'}:`, msg);
    }
    
    let idSeq = 0;
    http.createServer((req, res) => {
      asyncLocalStorage.run(idSeq++, () => {
        logWithId('start');
        // Imagine any chain of async operations here
        setImmediate(() => {
          logWithId('finish');
          res.end();
        });
      });
    }).listen(8080);
    
    http.get('http://localhost:8080');
    http.get('http://localhost:8080');
    // Prints:
    //   0: start
    //   1: start
    //   0: finish
    //   1: finishconst http = require('node:http');
    const { AsyncLocalStorage } = require('node:async_hooks');
    
    const asyncLocalStorage = new AsyncLocalStorage();
    
    function logWithId(msg) {
      const id = asyncLocalStorage.getStore();
      console.log(`${id !== undefined ? id : '-'}:`, msg);
    }
    
    let idSeq = 0;
    http.createServer((req, res) => {
      asyncLocalStorage.run(idSeq++, () => {
        logWithId('start');
        // Imagine any chain of async operations here
        setImmediate(() => {
          logWithId('finish');
          res.end();
        });
      });
    }).listen(8080);
    
    http.get('http://localhost:8080');
    http.get('http://localhost:8080');
    // Prints:
    //   0: start
    //   1: start
    //   0: finish
    //   1: finishcopy

Each instance of `AsyncLocalStorage` maintains an independent storage context.
Multiple instances can safely exist simultaneously without risk of interfering
with each other's data.

#### `new AsyncLocalStorage()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.7.0, v18.16.0 | Removed experimental onPropagate option.  
v19.2.0, v18.13.0 | Add option onPropagate.  
v13.10.0, v12.17.0 | Added in: v13.10.0, v12.17.0  
  
Creates a new instance of `AsyncLocalStorage`. Store is only provided within a
`run()` call or after an `enterWith()` call.

#### Static method: `AsyncLocalStorage.bind(fn)`#

Added in: v19.8.0, v18.16.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The function to bind to the current execution context.
  * Returns: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A new function that calls `fn` within the captured execution context.

Binds the given function to the current execution context.

#### Static method: `AsyncLocalStorage.snapshot()`#

Added in: v19.8.0, v18.16.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * Returns: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A new function with the signature `(fn: (...args) : R, ...args) : R`.

Captures the current execution context and returns a function that accepts a
function as an argument. Whenever the returned function is called, it calls
the function passed to it within the captured context.

    
    
    const asyncLocalStorage = new AsyncLocalStorage();
    const runInAsyncScope = asyncLocalStorage.run(123, () => AsyncLocalStorage.snapshot());
    const result = asyncLocalStorage.run(321, () => runInAsyncScope(() => asyncLocalStorage.getStore()));
    console.log(result);  // returns 123 copy

AsyncLocalStorage.snapshot() can replace the use of AsyncResource for simple
async context tracking purposes, for example:

    
    
    class Foo {
      #runInAsyncScope = AsyncLocalStorage.snapshot();
    
      get() { return this.#runInAsyncScope(() => asyncLocalStorage.getStore()); }
    }
    
    const foo = asyncLocalStorage.run(123, () => new Foo());
    console.log(asyncLocalStorage.run(321, () => foo.get())); // returns 123 copy

#### `asyncLocalStorage.disable()`#

Added in: v13.10.0, v12.17.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Disables the instance of `AsyncLocalStorage`. All subsequent calls to
`asyncLocalStorage.getStore()` will return `undefined` until
`asyncLocalStorage.run()` or `asyncLocalStorage.enterWith()` is called again.

When calling `asyncLocalStorage.disable()`, all current contexts linked to the
instance will be exited.

Calling `asyncLocalStorage.disable()` is required before the
`asyncLocalStorage` can be garbage collected. This does not apply to stores
provided by the `asyncLocalStorage`, as those objects are garbage collected
along with the corresponding async resources.

Use this method when the `asyncLocalStorage` is not in use anymore in the
current process.

#### `asyncLocalStorage.getStore()`#

Added in: v13.10.0, v12.17.0

  * Returns: [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Returns the current store. If called outside of an asynchronous context
initialized by calling `asyncLocalStorage.run()` or
`asyncLocalStorage.enterWith()`, it returns `undefined`.

#### `asyncLocalStorage.enterWith(store)`#

Added in: v13.11.0, v12.17.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `store` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Transitions into the context for the remainder of the current synchronous
execution and then persists the store through any following asynchronous
calls.

Example:

    
    
    const store = { id: 1 };
    // Replaces previous store with the given store object
    asyncLocalStorage.enterWith(store);
    asyncLocalStorage.getStore(); // Returns the store object
    someAsyncOperation(() => {
      asyncLocalStorage.getStore(); // Returns the same object
    }); copy

This transition will continue for the _entire_ synchronous execution. This
means that if, for example, the context is entered within an event handler
subsequent event handlers will also run within that context unless
specifically bound to another context with an `AsyncResource`. That is why
`run()` should be preferred over `enterWith()` unless there are strong reasons
to use the latter method.

    
    
    const store = { id: 1 };
    
    emitter.on('my-event', () => {
      asyncLocalStorage.enterWith(store);
    });
    emitter.on('my-event', () => {
      asyncLocalStorage.getStore(); // Returns the same object
    });
    
    asyncLocalStorage.getStore(); // Returns undefined
    emitter.emit('my-event');
    asyncLocalStorage.getStore(); // Returns the same object copy

#### `asyncLocalStorage.run(store, callback[, ...args])`#

Added in: v13.10.0, v12.17.0

  * `store` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Runs a function synchronously within a context and returns its return value.
The store is not accessible outside of the callback function. The store is
accessible to any asynchronous operations created within the callback.

The optional `args` are passed to the callback function.

If the callback function throws an error, the error is thrown by `run()` too.
The stacktrace is not impacted by this call and the context is exited.

Example:

    
    
    const store = { id: 2 };
    try {
      asyncLocalStorage.run(store, () => {
        asyncLocalStorage.getStore(); // Returns the store object
        setTimeout(() => {
          asyncLocalStorage.getStore(); // Returns the store object
        }, 200);
        throw new Error();
      });
    } catch (e) {
      asyncLocalStorage.getStore(); // Returns undefined
      // The error will be caught here
    } copy

#### `asyncLocalStorage.exit(callback[, ...args])`#

Added in: v13.10.0, v12.17.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Runs a function synchronously outside of a context and returns its return
value. The store is not accessible within the callback function or the
asynchronous operations created within the callback. Any `getStore()` call
done within the callback function will always return `undefined`.

The optional `args` are passed to the callback function.

If the callback function throws an error, the error is thrown by `exit()` too.
The stacktrace is not impacted by this call and the context is re-entered.

Example:

    
    
    // Within a call to run
    try {
      asyncLocalStorage.getStore(); // Returns the store object or value
      asyncLocalStorage.exit(() => {
        asyncLocalStorage.getStore(); // Returns undefined
        throw new Error();
      });
    } catch (e) {
      asyncLocalStorage.getStore(); // Returns the same object or value
      // The error will be caught here
    } copy

#### Usage with `async/await`#

If, within an async function, only one `await` call is to run within a
context, the following pattern should be used:

    
    
    async function fn() {
      await asyncLocalStorage.run(new Map(), () => {
        asyncLocalStorage.getStore().set('key', value);
        return foo(); // The return value of foo will be awaited
      });
    } copy

In this example, the store is only available in the callback function and the
functions called by `foo`. Outside of `run`, calling `getStore` will return
`undefined`.

#### Troubleshooting: Context loss#

In most cases, `AsyncLocalStorage` works without issues. In rare situations,
the current store is lost in one of the asynchronous operations.

If your code is callback-based, it is enough to promisify it with
`util.promisify()` so it starts working with native promises.

If you need to use a callback-based API or your code assumes a custom thenable
implementation, use the `AsyncResource` class to associate the asynchronous
operation with the correct execution context. Find the function call
responsible for the context loss by logging the content of
`asyncLocalStorage.getStore()` after the calls you suspect are responsible for
the loss. When the code logs `undefined`, the last callback called is probably
responsible for the context loss.

### Class: `AsyncResource`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.4.0 | AsyncResource is now Stable. Previously, it had been Experimental.  
  
The class `AsyncResource` is designed to be extended by the embedder's async
resources. Using this, users can easily trigger the lifetime events of their
own resources.

The `init` hook will trigger when an `AsyncResource` is instantiated.

The following is an overview of the `AsyncResource` API.

    
    
    import { AsyncResource, executionAsyncId } from 'node:async_hooks';
    
    // AsyncResource() is meant to be extended. Instantiating a
    // new AsyncResource() also triggers init. If triggerAsyncId is omitted then
    // async_hook.executionAsyncId() is used.
    const asyncResource = new AsyncResource(
      type, { triggerAsyncId: executionAsyncId(), requireManualDestroy: false },
    );
    
    // Run a function in the execution context of the resource. This will
    // * establish the context of the resource
    // * trigger the AsyncHooks before callbacks
    // * call the provided function `fn` with the supplied arguments
    // * trigger the AsyncHooks after callbacks
    // * restore the original execution context
    asyncResource.runInAsyncScope(fn, thisArg, ...args);
    
    // Call AsyncHooks destroy callbacks.
    asyncResource.emitDestroy();
    
    // Return the unique ID assigned to the AsyncResource instance.
    asyncResource.asyncId();
    
    // Return the trigger ID for the AsyncResource instance.
    asyncResource.triggerAsyncId();const { AsyncResource, executionAsyncId } = require('node:async_hooks');
    
    // AsyncResource() is meant to be extended. Instantiating a
    // new AsyncResource() also triggers init. If triggerAsyncId is omitted then
    // async_hook.executionAsyncId() is used.
    const asyncResource = new AsyncResource(
      type, { triggerAsyncId: executionAsyncId(), requireManualDestroy: false },
    );
    
    // Run a function in the execution context of the resource. This will
    // * establish the context of the resource
    // * trigger the AsyncHooks before callbacks
    // * call the provided function `fn` with the supplied arguments
    // * trigger the AsyncHooks after callbacks
    // * restore the original execution context
    asyncResource.runInAsyncScope(fn, thisArg, ...args);
    
    // Call AsyncHooks destroy callbacks.
    asyncResource.emitDestroy();
    
    // Return the unique ID assigned to the AsyncResource instance.
    asyncResource.asyncId();
    
    // Return the trigger ID for the AsyncResource instance.
    asyncResource.triggerAsyncId();copy

#### `new AsyncResource(type[, options])`#

  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The type of async event.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `triggerAsyncId` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The ID of the execution context that created this async event. **Default:** `executionAsyncId()`.
    * `requireManualDestroy` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `true`, disables `emitDestroy` when the object is garbage collected. This usually does not need to be set (even if `emitDestroy` is called manually), unless the resource's `asyncId` is retrieved and the sensitive API's `emitDestroy` is called with it. When set to `false`, the `emitDestroy` call on garbage collection will only take place if there is at least one active `destroy` hook. **Default:** `false`.

Example usage:

    
    
    class DBQuery extends AsyncResource {
      constructor(db) {
        super('DBQuery');
        this.db = db;
      }
    
      getInfo(query, callback) {
        this.db.get(query, (err, data) => {
          this.runInAsyncScope(callback, null, err, data);
        });
      }
    
      close() {
        this.db = null;
        this.emitDestroy();
      }
    } copy

#### Static method: `AsyncResource.bind(fn[, type[, thisArg]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | The `asyncResource` property added to the bound function has been deprecated and will be removed in a future version.  
v17.8.0, v16.15.0 | Changed the default when `thisArg` is undefined to use `this` from the caller.  
v16.0.0 | Added optional thisArg.  
v14.8.0, v12.19.0 | Added in: v14.8.0, v12.19.0  
  
  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The function to bind to the current execution context.
  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) An optional name to associate with the underlying `AsyncResource`.
  * `thisArg` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Binds the given function to the current execution context.

#### `asyncResource.bind(fn[, thisArg])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | The `asyncResource` property added to the bound function has been deprecated and will be removed in a future version.  
v17.8.0, v16.15.0 | Changed the default when `thisArg` is undefined to use `this` from the caller.  
v16.0.0 | Added optional thisArg.  
v14.8.0, v12.19.0 | Added in: v14.8.0, v12.19.0  
  
  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The function to bind to the current `AsyncResource`.
  * `thisArg` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Binds the given function to execute to this `AsyncResource`'s scope.

#### `asyncResource.runInAsyncScope(fn[, thisArg, ...args])`#

Added in: v9.6.0

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The function to call in the execution context of this async resource.
  * `thisArg` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The receiver to be used for the function call.
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Optional arguments to pass to the function.

Call the provided function with the provided arguments in the execution
context of the async resource. This will establish the context, trigger the
AsyncHooks before callbacks, call the function, trigger the AsyncHooks after
callbacks, and then restore the original execution context.

#### `asyncResource.emitDestroy()`#

  * Returns: <AsyncResource> A reference to `asyncResource`.

Call all `destroy` hooks. This should only ever be called once. An error will
be thrown if it is called more than once. This **must** be manually called. If
the resource is left to be collected by the GC then the `destroy` hooks will
never be called.

#### `asyncResource.asyncId()`#

  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The unique `asyncId` assigned to the resource.

#### `asyncResource.triggerAsyncId()`#

  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The same `triggerAsyncId` that is passed to the `AsyncResource` constructor.

#### Using `AsyncResource` for a `Worker` thread pool#

The following example shows how to use the `AsyncResource` class to properly
provide async tracking for a `Worker` pool. Other resource pools, such as
database connection pools, can follow a similar model.

Assuming that the task is adding two numbers, using a file named
`task_processor.js` with the following content:

    
    
    import { parentPort } from 'node:worker_threads';
    parentPort.on('message', (task) => {
      parentPort.postMessage(task.a + task.b);
    });const { parentPort } = require('node:worker_threads');
    parentPort.on('message', (task) => {
      parentPort.postMessage(task.a + task.b);
    });copy

a Worker pool around it could use the following structure:

    
    
    import { AsyncResource } from 'node:async_hooks';
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    import { Worker } from 'node:worker_threads';
    
    const kTaskInfo = Symbol('kTaskInfo');
    const kWorkerFreedEvent = Symbol('kWorkerFreedEvent');
    
    class WorkerPoolTaskInfo extends AsyncResource {
      constructor(callback) {
        super('WorkerPoolTaskInfo');
        this.callback = callback;
      }
    
      done(err, result) {
        this.runInAsyncScope(this.callback, null, err, result);
        this.emitDestroy();  // `TaskInfo`s are used only once.
      }
    }
    
    export default class WorkerPool extends EventEmitter {
      constructor(numThreads) {
        super();
        this.numThreads = numThreads;
        this.workers = [];
        this.freeWorkers = [];
        this.tasks = [];
    
        for (let i = 0; i < numThreads; i++)
          this.addNewWorker();
    
        // Any time the kWorkerFreedEvent is emitted, dispatch
        // the next task pending in the queue, if any.
        this.on(kWorkerFreedEvent, () => {
          if (this.tasks.length > 0) {
            const { task, callback } = this.tasks.shift();
            this.runTask(task, callback);
          }
        });
      }
    
      addNewWorker() {
        const worker = new Worker(new URL('task_processor.js', import.meta.url));
        worker.on('message', (result) => {
          // In case of success: Call the callback that was passed to `runTask`,
          // remove the `TaskInfo` associated with the Worker, and mark it as free
          // again.
          worker[kTaskInfo].done(null, result);
          worker[kTaskInfo] = null;
          this.freeWorkers.push(worker);
          this.emit(kWorkerFreedEvent);
        });
        worker.on('error', (err) => {
          // In case of an uncaught exception: Call the callback that was passed to
          // `runTask` with the error.
          if (worker[kTaskInfo])
            worker[kTaskInfo].done(err, null);
          else
            this.emit('error', err);
          // Remove the worker from the list and start a new Worker to replace the
          // current one.
          this.workers.splice(this.workers.indexOf(worker), 1);
          this.addNewWorker();
        });
        this.workers.push(worker);
        this.freeWorkers.push(worker);
        this.emit(kWorkerFreedEvent);
      }
    
      runTask(task, callback) {
        if (this.freeWorkers.length === 0) {
          // No free threads, wait until a worker thread becomes free.
          this.tasks.push({ task, callback });
          return;
        }
    
        const worker = this.freeWorkers.pop();
        worker[kTaskInfo] = new WorkerPoolTaskInfo(callback);
        worker.postMessage(task);
      }
    
      close() {
        for (const worker of this.workers) worker.terminate();
      }
    }const { AsyncResource } = require('node:async_hooks');
    const { EventEmitter } = require('node:events');
    const path = require('node:path');
    const { Worker } = require('node:worker_threads');
    
    const kTaskInfo = Symbol('kTaskInfo');
    const kWorkerFreedEvent = Symbol('kWorkerFreedEvent');
    
    class WorkerPoolTaskInfo extends AsyncResource {
      constructor(callback) {
        super('WorkerPoolTaskInfo');
        this.callback = callback;
      }
    
      done(err, result) {
        this.runInAsyncScope(this.callback, null, err, result);
        this.emitDestroy();  // `TaskInfo`s are used only once.
      }
    }
    
    class WorkerPool extends EventEmitter {
      constructor(numThreads) {
        super();
        this.numThreads = numThreads;
        this.workers = [];
        this.freeWorkers = [];
        this.tasks = [];
    
        for (let i = 0; i < numThreads; i++)
          this.addNewWorker();
    
        // Any time the kWorkerFreedEvent is emitted, dispatch
        // the next task pending in the queue, if any.
        this.on(kWorkerFreedEvent, () => {
          if (this.tasks.length > 0) {
            const { task, callback } = this.tasks.shift();
            this.runTask(task, callback);
          }
        });
      }
    
      addNewWorker() {
        const worker = new Worker(path.resolve(__dirname, 'task_processor.js'));
        worker.on('message', (result) => {
          // In case of success: Call the callback that was passed to `runTask`,
          // remove the `TaskInfo` associated with the Worker, and mark it as free
          // again.
          worker[kTaskInfo].done(null, result);
          worker[kTaskInfo] = null;
          this.freeWorkers.push(worker);
          this.emit(kWorkerFreedEvent);
        });
        worker.on('error', (err) => {
          // In case of an uncaught exception: Call the callback that was passed to
          // `runTask` with the error.
          if (worker[kTaskInfo])
            worker[kTaskInfo].done(err, null);
          else
            this.emit('error', err);
          // Remove the worker from the list and start a new Worker to replace the
          // current one.
          this.workers.splice(this.workers.indexOf(worker), 1);
          this.addNewWorker();
        });
        this.workers.push(worker);
        this.freeWorkers.push(worker);
        this.emit(kWorkerFreedEvent);
      }
    
      runTask(task, callback) {
        if (this.freeWorkers.length === 0) {
          // No free threads, wait until a worker thread becomes free.
          this.tasks.push({ task, callback });
          return;
        }
    
        const worker = this.freeWorkers.pop();
        worker[kTaskInfo] = new WorkerPoolTaskInfo(callback);
        worker.postMessage(task);
      }
    
      close() {
        for (const worker of this.workers) worker.terminate();
      }
    }
    
    module.exports = WorkerPool;copy

Without the explicit tracking added by the `WorkerPoolTaskInfo` objects, it
would appear that the callbacks are associated with the individual `Worker`
objects. However, the creation of the `Worker`s is not associated with the
creation of the tasks and does not provide information about when tasks were
scheduled.

This pool could be used as follows:

    
    
    import WorkerPool from './worker_pool.js';
    import os from 'node:os';
    
    const pool = new WorkerPool(os.availableParallelism());
    
    let finished = 0;
    for (let i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
      pool.runTask({ a: 42, b: 100 }, (err, result) => {
        console.log(i, err, result);
        if (++finished === 10)
          pool.close();
      });
    }const WorkerPool = require('./worker_pool.js');
    const os = require('node:os');
    
    const pool = new WorkerPool(os.availableParallelism());
    
    let finished = 0;
    for (let i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
      pool.runTask({ a: 42, b: 100 }, (err, result) => {
        console.log(i, err, result);
        if (++finished === 10)
          pool.close();
      });
    }copy

#### Integrating `AsyncResource` with `EventEmitter`#

Event listeners triggered by an `EventEmitter` may be run in a different
execution context than the one that was active when `eventEmitter.on()` was
called.

The following example shows how to use the `AsyncResource` class to properly
associate an event listener with the correct execution context. The same
approach can be applied to a `Stream` or a similar event-driven class.

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http';
    import { AsyncResource, executionAsyncId } from 'node:async_hooks';
    
    const server = createServer((req, res) => {
      req.on('close', AsyncResource.bind(() => {
        // Execution context is bound to the current outer scope.
      }));
      req.on('close', () => {
        // Execution context is bound to the scope that caused 'close' to emit.
      });
      res.end();
    }).listen(3000);const { createServer } = require('node:http');
    const { AsyncResource, executionAsyncId } = require('node:async_hooks');
    
    const server = createServer((req, res) => {
      req.on('close', AsyncResource.bind(() => {
        // Execution context is bound to the current outer scope.
      }));
      req.on('close', () => {
        // Execution context is bound to the scope that caused 'close' to emit.
      });
      res.end();
    }).listen(3000);copy

## Async hooks#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental. Please migrate away from this API, if you can.
We do not recommend using the `createHook`, `AsyncHook`, and
`executionAsyncResource` APIs as they have usability issues, safety risks, and
performance implications. Async context tracking use cases are better served
by the stable `AsyncLocalStorage` API. If you have a use case for
`createHook`, `AsyncHook`, or `executionAsyncResource` beyond the context
tracking need solved by `AsyncLocalStorage` or diagnostics data currently
provided by [Diagnostics Channel](diagnostics_channel.html), please open an
issue at <https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues> describing your use case so
we can create a more purpose-focused API.

**Source Code:**
[lib/async_hooks.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/async_hooks.js)

We strongly discourage the use of the `async_hooks` API. Other APIs that can
cover most of its use cases include:

  * `AsyncLocalStorage` tracks async context
  * `process.getActiveResourcesInfo()` tracks active resources

The `node:async_hooks` module provides an API to track asynchronous resources.
It can be accessed using:

    
    
    import async_hooks from 'node:async_hooks';const async_hooks = require('node:async_hooks');copy

### Terminology#

An asynchronous resource represents an object with an associated callback.
This callback may be called multiple times, such as the `'connection'` event
in `net.createServer()`, or just a single time like in `fs.open()`. A resource
can also be closed before the callback is called. `AsyncHook` does not
explicitly distinguish between these different cases but will represent them
as the abstract concept that is a resource.

If `Worker`s are used, each thread has an independent `async_hooks` interface,
and each thread will use a new set of async IDs.

### Overview#

Following is a simple overview of the public API.

    
    
    import async_hooks from 'node:async_hooks';
    
    // Return the ID of the current execution context.
    const eid = async_hooks.executionAsyncId();
    
    // Return the ID of the handle responsible for triggering the callback of the
    // current execution scope to call.
    const tid = async_hooks.triggerAsyncId();
    
    // Create a new AsyncHook instance. All of these callbacks are optional.
    const asyncHook =
        async_hooks.createHook({ init, before, after, destroy, promiseResolve });
    
    // Allow callbacks of this AsyncHook instance to call. This is not an implicit
    // action after running the constructor, and must be explicitly run to begin
    // executing callbacks.
    asyncHook.enable();
    
    // Disable listening for new asynchronous events.
    asyncHook.disable();
    
    //
    // The following are the callbacks that can be passed to createHook().
    //
    
    // init() is called during object construction. The resource may not have
    // completed construction when this callback runs. Therefore, all fields of the
    // resource referenced by "asyncId" may not have been populated.
    function init(asyncId, type, triggerAsyncId, resource) { }
    
    // before() is called just before the resource's callback is called. It can be
    // called 0-N times for handles (such as TCPWrap), and will be called exactly 1
    // time for requests (such as FSReqCallback).
    function before(asyncId) { }
    
    // after() is called just after the resource's callback has finished.
    function after(asyncId) { }
    
    // destroy() is called when the resource is destroyed.
    function destroy(asyncId) { }
    
    // promiseResolve() is called only for promise resources, when the
    // resolve() function passed to the Promise constructor is invoked
    // (either directly or through other means of resolving a promise).
    function promiseResolve(asyncId) { }const async_hooks = require('node:async_hooks');
    
    // Return the ID of the current execution context.
    const eid = async_hooks.executionAsyncId();
    
    // Return the ID of the handle responsible for triggering the callback of the
    // current execution scope to call.
    const tid = async_hooks.triggerAsyncId();
    
    // Create a new AsyncHook instance. All of these callbacks are optional.
    const asyncHook =
        async_hooks.createHook({ init, before, after, destroy, promiseResolve });
    
    // Allow callbacks of this AsyncHook instance to call. This is not an implicit
    // action after running the constructor, and must be explicitly run to begin
    // executing callbacks.
    asyncHook.enable();
    
    // Disable listening for new asynchronous events.
    asyncHook.disable();
    
    //
    // The following are the callbacks that can be passed to createHook().
    //
    
    // init() is called during object construction. The resource may not have
    // completed construction when this callback runs. Therefore, all fields of the
    // resource referenced by "asyncId" may not have been populated.
    function init(asyncId, type, triggerAsyncId, resource) { }
    
    // before() is called just before the resource's callback is called. It can be
    // called 0-N times for handles (such as TCPWrap), and will be called exactly 1
    // time for requests (such as FSReqCallback).
    function before(asyncId) { }
    
    // after() is called just after the resource's callback has finished.
    function after(asyncId) { }
    
    // destroy() is called when the resource is destroyed.
    function destroy(asyncId) { }
    
    // promiseResolve() is called only for promise resources, when the
    // resolve() function passed to the Promise constructor is invoked
    // (either directly or through other means of resolving a promise).
    function promiseResolve(asyncId) { }copy

### `async_hooks.createHook(callbacks)`#

Added in: v8.1.0

  * `callbacks` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The Hook Callbacks to register 
    * `init` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `init` callback.
    * `before` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `before` callback.
    * `after` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `after` callback.
    * `destroy` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `destroy` callback.
    * `promiseResolve` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `promiseResolve` callback.
  * Returns: <AsyncHook> Instance used for disabling and enabling hooks

Registers functions to be called for different lifetime events of each async
operation.

The callbacks `init()`/`before()`/`after()`/`destroy()` are called for the
respective asynchronous event during a resource's lifetime.

All callbacks are optional. For example, if only resource cleanup needs to be
tracked, then only the `destroy` callback needs to be passed. The specifics of
all functions that can be passed to `callbacks` is in the Hook Callbacks
section.

    
    
    import { createHook } from 'node:async_hooks';
    
    const asyncHook = createHook({
      init(asyncId, type, triggerAsyncId, resource) { },
      destroy(asyncId) { },
    });const async_hooks = require('node:async_hooks');
    
    const asyncHook = async_hooks.createHook({
      init(asyncId, type, triggerAsyncId, resource) { },
      destroy(asyncId) { },
    });copy

The callbacks will be inherited via the prototype chain:

    
    
    class MyAsyncCallbacks {
      init(asyncId, type, triggerAsyncId, resource) { }
      destroy(asyncId) {}
    }
    
    class MyAddedCallbacks extends MyAsyncCallbacks {
      before(asyncId) { }
      after(asyncId) { }
    }
    
    const asyncHook = async_hooks.createHook(new MyAddedCallbacks()); copy

Because promises are asynchronous resources whose lifecycle is tracked via the
async hooks mechanism, the `init()`, `before()`, `after()`, and `destroy()`
callbacks _must not_ be async functions that return promises.

#### Error handling#

If any `AsyncHook` callbacks throw, the application will print the stack trace
and exit. The exit path does follow that of an uncaught exception, but all
`'uncaughtException'` listeners are removed, thus forcing the process to exit.
The `'exit'` callbacks will still be called unless the application is run with
`--abort-on-uncaught-exception`, in which case a stack trace will be printed
and the application exits, leaving a core file.

The reason for this error handling behavior is that these callbacks are
running at potentially volatile points in an object's lifetime, for example
during class construction and destruction. Because of this, it is deemed
necessary to bring down the process quickly in order to prevent an
unintentional abort in the future. This is subject to change in the future if
a comprehensive analysis is performed to ensure an exception can follow the
normal control flow without unintentional side effects.

#### Printing in `AsyncHook` callbacks#

Because printing to the console is an asynchronous operation, `console.log()`
will cause `AsyncHook` callbacks to be called. Using `console.log()` or
similar asynchronous operations inside an `AsyncHook` callback function will
cause an infinite recursion. An easy solution to this when debugging is to use
a synchronous logging operation such as `fs.writeFileSync(file, msg, flag)`.
This will print to the file and will not invoke `AsyncHook` recursively
because it is synchronous.

    
    
    import { writeFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    import { format } from 'node:util';
    
    function debug(...args) {
      // Use a function like this one when debugging inside an AsyncHook callback
      writeFileSync('log.out', `${format(...args)}\n`, { flag: 'a' });
    }const fs = require('node:fs');
    const util = require('node:util');
    
    function debug(...args) {
      // Use a function like this one when debugging inside an AsyncHook callback
      fs.writeFileSync('log.out', `${util.format(...args)}\n`, { flag: 'a' });
    }copy

If an asynchronous operation is needed for logging, it is possible to keep
track of what caused the asynchronous operation using the information provided
by `AsyncHook` itself. The logging should then be skipped when it was the
logging itself that caused the `AsyncHook` callback to be called. By doing
this, the otherwise infinite recursion is broken.

### Class: `AsyncHook`#

The class `AsyncHook` exposes an interface for tracking lifetime events of
asynchronous operations.

#### `asyncHook.enable()`#

  * Returns: <AsyncHook> A reference to `asyncHook`.

Enable the callbacks for a given `AsyncHook` instance. If no callbacks are
provided, enabling is a no-op.

The `AsyncHook` instance is disabled by default. If the `AsyncHook` instance
should be enabled immediately after creation, the following pattern can be
used.

    
    
    import { createHook } from 'node:async_hooks';
    
    const hook = createHook(callbacks).enable();const async_hooks = require('node:async_hooks');
    
    const hook = async_hooks.createHook(callbacks).enable();copy

#### `asyncHook.disable()`#

  * Returns: <AsyncHook> A reference to `asyncHook`.

Disable the callbacks for a given `AsyncHook` instance from the global pool of
`AsyncHook` callbacks to be executed. Once a hook has been disabled it will
not be called again until enabled.

For API consistency `disable()` also returns the `AsyncHook` instance.

#### Hook callbacks#

Key events in the lifetime of asynchronous events have been categorized into
four areas: instantiation, before/after the callback is called, and when the
instance is destroyed.

##### `init(asyncId, type, triggerAsyncId, resource)`#

  * `asyncId` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A unique ID for the async resource.
  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The type of the async resource.
  * `triggerAsyncId` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The unique ID of the async resource in whose execution context this async resource was created.
  * `resource` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Reference to the resource representing the async operation, needs to be released during _destroy_.

Called when a class is constructed that has the _possibility_ to emit an
asynchronous event. This _does not_ mean the instance must call
`before`/`after` before `destroy` is called, only that the possibility exists.

This behavior can be observed by doing something like opening a resource then
closing it before the resource can be used. The following snippet demonstrates
this.

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:net';
    
    createServer().listen(function() { this.close(); });
    // OR
    clearTimeout(setTimeout(() => {}, 10));require('node:net').createServer().listen(function() { this.close(); });
    // OR
    clearTimeout(setTimeout(() => {}, 10));copy

Every new resource is assigned an ID that is unique within the scope of the
current Node.js instance.

###### `type`#

The `type` is a string identifying the type of resource that caused `init` to
be called. Generally, it will correspond to the name of the resource's
constructor.

The `type` of resources created by Node.js itself can change in any Node.js
release. Valid values include `TLSWRAP`, `TCPWRAP`, `TCPSERVERWRAP`,
`GETADDRINFOREQWRAP`, `FSREQCALLBACK`, `Microtask`, and `Timeout`. Inspect the
source code of the Node.js version used to get the full list.

Furthermore users of `AsyncResource` create async resources independent of
Node.js itself.

There is also the `PROMISE` resource type, which is used to track `Promise`
instances and asynchronous work scheduled by them.

Users are able to define their own `type` when using the public embedder API.

It is possible to have type name collisions. Embedders are encouraged to use
unique prefixes, such as the npm package name, to prevent collisions when
listening to the hooks.

###### `triggerAsyncId`#

`triggerAsyncId` is the `asyncId` of the resource that caused (or "triggered")
the new resource to initialize and that caused `init` to call. This is
different from `async_hooks.executionAsyncId()` that only shows _when_ a
resource was created, while `triggerAsyncId` shows _why_ a resource was
created.

The following is a simple demonstration of `triggerAsyncId`:

    
    
    import { createHook, executionAsyncId } from 'node:async_hooks';
    import { stdout } from 'node:process';
    import net from 'node:net';
    import fs from 'node:fs';
    
    createHook({
      init(asyncId, type, triggerAsyncId) {
        const eid = executionAsyncId();
        fs.writeSync(
          stdout.fd,
          `${type}(${asyncId}): trigger: ${triggerAsyncId} execution: ${eid}\n`);
      },
    }).enable();
    
    net.createServer((conn) => {}).listen(8080);const { createHook, executionAsyncId } = require('node:async_hooks');
    const { stdout } = require('node:process');
    const net = require('node:net');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    createHook({
      init(asyncId, type, triggerAsyncId) {
        const eid = executionAsyncId();
        fs.writeSync(
          stdout.fd,
          `${type}(${asyncId}): trigger: ${triggerAsyncId} execution: ${eid}\n`);
      },
    }).enable();
    
    net.createServer((conn) => {}).listen(8080);copy

Output when hitting the server with `nc localhost 8080`:

    
    
    TCPSERVERWRAP(5): trigger: 1 execution: 1
    TCPWRAP(7): trigger: 5 execution: 0 copy

The `TCPSERVERWRAP` is the server which receives the connections.

The `TCPWRAP` is the new connection from the client. When a new connection is
made, the `TCPWrap` instance is immediately constructed. This happens outside
of any JavaScript stack. (An `executionAsyncId()` of `0` means that it is
being executed from C++ with no JavaScript stack above it.) With only that
information, it would be impossible to link resources together in terms of
what caused them to be created, so `triggerAsyncId` is given the task of
propagating what resource is responsible for the new resource's existence.

###### `resource`#

`resource` is an object that represents the actual async resource that has
been initialized. The API to access the object may be specified by the creator
of the resource. Resources created by Node.js itself are internal and may
change at any time. Therefore no API is specified for these.

In some cases the resource object is reused for performance reasons, it is
thus not safe to use it as a key in a `WeakMap` or add properties to it.

###### Asynchronous context example#

The context tracking use case is covered by the stable API
`AsyncLocalStorage`. This example only illustrates async hooks operation but
`AsyncLocalStorage` fits better to this use case.

The following is an example with additional information about the calls to
`init` between the `before` and `after` calls, specifically what the callback
to `listen()` will look like. The output formatting is slightly more elaborate
to make calling context easier to see.

    
    
    import async_hooks from 'node:async_hooks';
    import fs from 'node:fs';
    import net from 'node:net';
    import { stdout } from 'node:process';
    const { fd } = stdout;
    
    let indent = 0;
    async_hooks.createHook({
      init(asyncId, type, triggerAsyncId) {
        const eid = async_hooks.executionAsyncId();
        const indentStr = ' '.repeat(indent);
        fs.writeSync(
          fd,
          `${indentStr}${type}(${asyncId}):` +
          ` trigger: ${triggerAsyncId} execution: ${eid}\n`);
      },
      before(asyncId) {
        const indentStr = ' '.repeat(indent);
        fs.writeSync(fd, `${indentStr}before:  ${asyncId}\n`);
        indent += 2;
      },
      after(asyncId) {
        indent -= 2;
        const indentStr = ' '.repeat(indent);
        fs.writeSync(fd, `${indentStr}after:  ${asyncId}\n`);
      },
      destroy(asyncId) {
        const indentStr = ' '.repeat(indent);
        fs.writeSync(fd, `${indentStr}destroy:  ${asyncId}\n`);
      },
    }).enable();
    
    net.createServer(() => {}).listen(8080, () => {
      // Let's wait 10ms before logging the server started.
      setTimeout(() => {
        console.log('>>>', async_hooks.executionAsyncId());
      }, 10);
    });const async_hooks = require('node:async_hooks');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const net = require('node:net');
    const { fd } = process.stdout;
    
    let indent = 0;
    async_hooks.createHook({
      init(asyncId, type, triggerAsyncId) {
        const eid = async_hooks.executionAsyncId();
        const indentStr = ' '.repeat(indent);
        fs.writeSync(
          fd,
          `${indentStr}${type}(${asyncId}):` +
          ` trigger: ${triggerAsyncId} execution: ${eid}\n`);
      },
      before(asyncId) {
        const indentStr = ' '.repeat(indent);
        fs.writeSync(fd, `${indentStr}before:  ${asyncId}\n`);
        indent += 2;
      },
      after(asyncId) {
        indent -= 2;
        const indentStr = ' '.repeat(indent);
        fs.writeSync(fd, `${indentStr}after:  ${asyncId}\n`);
      },
      destroy(asyncId) {
        const indentStr = ' '.repeat(indent);
        fs.writeSync(fd, `${indentStr}destroy:  ${asyncId}\n`);
      },
    }).enable();
    
    net.createServer(() => {}).listen(8080, () => {
      // Let's wait 10ms before logging the server started.
      setTimeout(() => {
        console.log('>>>', async_hooks.executionAsyncId());
      }, 10);
    });copy

Output from only starting the server:

    
    
    TCPSERVERWRAP(5): trigger: 1 execution: 1
    TickObject(6): trigger: 5 execution: 1
    before:  6
      Timeout(7): trigger: 6 execution: 6
    after:   6
    destroy: 6
    before:  7
    >>> 7
      TickObject(8): trigger: 7 execution: 7
    after:   7
    before:  8
    after:   8 copy

As illustrated in the example, `executionAsyncId()` and `execution` each
specify the value of the current execution context; which is delineated by
calls to `before` and `after`.

Only using `execution` to graph resource allocation results in the following:

    
    
      root(1)
         ^
         |
    TickObject(6)
         ^
         |
     Timeout(7) copy

The `TCPSERVERWRAP` is not part of this graph, even though it was the reason
for `console.log()` being called. This is because binding to a port without a
host name is a _synchronous_ operation, but to maintain a completely
asynchronous API the user's callback is placed in a `process.nextTick()`.
Which is why `TickObject` is present in the output and is a 'parent' for
`.listen()` callback.

The graph only shows _when_ a resource was created, not _why_ , so to track
the _why_ use `triggerAsyncId`. Which can be represented with the following
graph:

    
    
     bootstrap(1)
         |
         ˅
    TCPSERVERWRAP(5)
         |
         ˅
     TickObject(6)
         |
         ˅
      Timeout(7) copy

##### `before(asyncId)`#

  * `asyncId` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

When an asynchronous operation is initiated (such as a TCP server receiving a
new connection) or completes (such as writing data to disk) a callback is
called to notify the user. The `before` callback is called just before said
callback is executed. `asyncId` is the unique identifier assigned to the
resource about to execute the callback.

The `before` callback will be called 0 to N times. The `before` callback will
typically be called 0 times if the asynchronous operation was cancelled or,
for example, if no connections are received by a TCP server. Persistent
asynchronous resources like a TCP server will typically call the `before`
callback multiple times, while other operations like `fs.open()` will call it
only once.

##### `after(asyncId)`#

  * `asyncId` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Called immediately after the callback specified in `before` is completed.

If an uncaught exception occurs during execution of the callback, then `after`
will run _after_ the `'uncaughtException'` event is emitted or a `domain`'s
handler runs.

##### `destroy(asyncId)`#

  * `asyncId` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Called after the resource corresponding to `asyncId` is destroyed. It is also
called asynchronously from the embedder API `emitDestroy()`.

Some resources depend on garbage collection for cleanup, so if a reference is
made to the `resource` object passed to `init` it is possible that `destroy`
will never be called, causing a memory leak in the application. If the
resource does not depend on garbage collection, then this will not be an
issue.

Using the destroy hook results in additional overhead because it enables
tracking of `Promise` instances via the garbage collector.

##### `promiseResolve(asyncId)`#

Added in: v8.6.0

  * `asyncId` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Called when the `resolve` function passed to the `Promise` constructor is
invoked (either directly or through other means of resolving a promise).

`resolve()` does not do any observable synchronous work.

The `Promise` is not necessarily fulfilled or rejected at this point if the
`Promise` was resolved by assuming the state of another `Promise`.

    
    
    new Promise((resolve) => resolve(true)).then((a) => {}); copy

calls the following callbacks:

    
    
    init for PROMISE with id 5, trigger id: 1
      promise resolve 5      # corresponds to resolve(true)
    init for PROMISE with id 6, trigger id: 5  # the Promise returned by then()
      before 6               # the then() callback is entered
      promise resolve 6      # the then() callback resolves the promise by returning
      after 6 copy

#### `async_hooks.executionAsyncResource()`#

Added in: v13.9.0, v12.17.0

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The resource representing the current execution. Useful to store data within the resource.

Resource objects returned by `executionAsyncResource()` are most often
internal Node.js handle objects with undocumented APIs. Using any functions or
properties on the object is likely to crash your application and should be
avoided.

Using `executionAsyncResource()` in the top-level execution context will
return an empty object as there is no handle or request object to use, but
having an object representing the top-level can be helpful.

    
    
    import { open } from 'node:fs';
    import { executionAsyncId, executionAsyncResource } from 'node:async_hooks';
    
    console.log(executionAsyncId(), executionAsyncResource());  // 1 {}
    open(new URL(import.meta.url), 'r', (err, fd) => {
      console.log(executionAsyncId(), executionAsyncResource());  // 7 FSReqWrap
    });const { open } = require('node:fs');
    const { executionAsyncId, executionAsyncResource } = require('node:async_hooks');
    
    console.log(executionAsyncId(), executionAsyncResource());  // 1 {}
    open(__filename, 'r', (err, fd) => {
      console.log(executionAsyncId(), executionAsyncResource());  // 7 FSReqWrap
    });copy

This can be used to implement continuation local storage without the use of a
tracking `Map` to store the metadata:

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http';
    import {
      executionAsyncId,
      executionAsyncResource,
      createHook,
    } from 'node:async_hooks';
    const sym = Symbol('state'); // Private symbol to avoid pollution
    
    createHook({
      init(asyncId, type, triggerAsyncId, resource) {
        const cr = executionAsyncResource();
        if (cr) {
          resource[sym] = cr[sym];
        }
      },
    }).enable();
    
    const server = createServer((req, res) => {
      executionAsyncResource()[sym] = { state: req.url };
      setTimeout(function() {
        res.end(JSON.stringify(executionAsyncResource()[sym]));
      }, 100);
    }).listen(3000);const { createServer } = require('node:http');
    const {
      executionAsyncId,
      executionAsyncResource,
      createHook,
    } = require('node:async_hooks');
    const sym = Symbol('state'); // Private symbol to avoid pollution
    
    createHook({
      init(asyncId, type, triggerAsyncId, resource) {
        const cr = executionAsyncResource();
        if (cr) {
          resource[sym] = cr[sym];
        }
      },
    }).enable();
    
    const server = createServer((req, res) => {
      executionAsyncResource()[sym] = { state: req.url };
      setTimeout(function() {
        res.end(JSON.stringify(executionAsyncResource()[sym]));
      }, 100);
    }).listen(3000);copy

#### `async_hooks.executionAsyncId()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.2.0 | Renamed from `currentId`.  
v8.1.0 | Added in: v8.1.0  
  
  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The `asyncId` of the current execution context. Useful to track when something calls.

    
    
    import { executionAsyncId } from 'node:async_hooks';
    import fs from 'node:fs';
    
    console.log(executionAsyncId());  // 1 - bootstrap
    const path = '.';
    fs.open(path, 'r', (err, fd) => {
      console.log(executionAsyncId());  // 6 - open()
    });const async_hooks = require('node:async_hooks');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    console.log(async_hooks.executionAsyncId());  // 1 - bootstrap
    const path = '.';
    fs.open(path, 'r', (err, fd) => {
      console.log(async_hooks.executionAsyncId());  // 6 - open()
    });copy

The ID returned from `executionAsyncId()` is related to execution timing, not
causality (which is covered by `triggerAsyncId()`):

    
    
    const server = net.createServer((conn) => {
      // Returns the ID of the server, not of the new connection, because the
      // callback runs in the execution scope of the server's MakeCallback().
      async_hooks.executionAsyncId();
    
    }).listen(port, () => {
      // Returns the ID of a TickObject (process.nextTick()) because all
      // callbacks passed to .listen() are wrapped in a nextTick().
      async_hooks.executionAsyncId();
    }); copy

Promise contexts may not get precise `executionAsyncIds` by default. See the
section on promise execution tracking.

#### `async_hooks.triggerAsyncId()`#

  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The ID of the resource responsible for calling the callback that is currently being executed.

    
    
    const server = net.createServer((conn) => {
      // The resource that caused (or triggered) this callback to be called
      // was that of the new connection. Thus the return value of triggerAsyncId()
      // is the asyncId of "conn".
      async_hooks.triggerAsyncId();
    
    }).listen(port, () => {
      // Even though all callbacks passed to .listen() are wrapped in a nextTick()
      // the callback itself exists because the call to the server's .listen()
      // was made. So the return value would be the ID of the server.
      async_hooks.triggerAsyncId();
    }); copy

Promise contexts may not get valid `triggerAsyncId`s by default. See the
section on promise execution tracking.

#### `async_hooks.asyncWrapProviders`#

Added in: v17.2.0, v16.14.0

  * Returns: A map of provider types to the corresponding numeric id. This map contains all the event types that might be emitted by the `async_hooks.init()` event.

This feature suppresses the deprecated usage of
`process.binding('async_wrap').Providers`. See: DEP0111

### Promise execution tracking#

By default, promise executions are not assigned `asyncId`s due to the
relatively expensive nature of the [promise introspection
API](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rda3yKGHimKIhg5YeoAmCOtyURgsbTH_qaYR79FELlk/edit)
provided by V8. This means that programs using promises or `async`/`await`
will not get correct execution and trigger ids for promise callback contexts
by default.

    
    
    import { executionAsyncId, triggerAsyncId } from 'node:async_hooks';
    
    Promise.resolve(1729).then(() => {
      console.log(`eid ${executionAsyncId()} tid ${triggerAsyncId()}`);
    });
    // produces:
    // eid 1 tid 0const { executionAsyncId, triggerAsyncId } = require('node:async_hooks');
    
    Promise.resolve(1729).then(() => {
      console.log(`eid ${executionAsyncId()} tid ${triggerAsyncId()}`);
    });
    // produces:
    // eid 1 tid 0copy

Observe that the `then()` callback claims to have executed in the context of
the outer scope even though there was an asynchronous hop involved. Also, the
`triggerAsyncId` value is `0`, which means that we are missing context about
the resource that caused (triggered) the `then()` callback to be executed.

Installing async hooks via `async_hooks.createHook` enables promise execution
tracking:

    
    
    import { createHook, executionAsyncId, triggerAsyncId } from 'node:async_hooks';
    createHook({ init() {} }).enable(); // forces PromiseHooks to be enabled.
    Promise.resolve(1729).then(() => {
      console.log(`eid ${executionAsyncId()} tid ${triggerAsyncId()}`);
    });
    // produces:
    // eid 7 tid 6const { createHook, executionAsyncId, triggerAsyncId } = require('node:async_hooks');
    
    createHook({ init() {} }).enable(); // forces PromiseHooks to be enabled.
    Promise.resolve(1729).then(() => {
      console.log(`eid ${executionAsyncId()} tid ${triggerAsyncId()}`);
    });
    // produces:
    // eid 7 tid 6copy

In this example, adding any actual hook function enabled the tracking of
promises. There are two promises in the example above; the promise created by
`Promise.resolve()` and the promise returned by the call to `then()`. In the
example above, the first promise got the `asyncId` `6` and the latter got
`asyncId` `7`. During the execution of the `then()` callback, we are executing
in the context of promise with `asyncId` `7`. This promise was triggered by
async resource `6`.

Another subtlety with promises is that `before` and `after` callbacks are run
only on chained promises. That means promises not created by
`then()`/`catch()` will not have the `before` and `after` callbacks fired on
them. For more details see the details of the V8
[PromiseHooks](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rda3yKGHimKIhg5YeoAmCOtyURgsbTH_qaYR79FELlk/edit)
API.

### JavaScript embedder API#

Library developers that handle their own asynchronous resources performing
tasks like I/O, connection pooling, or managing callback queues may use the
`AsyncResource` JavaScript API so that all the appropriate callbacks are
called.

#### Class: `AsyncResource`#

The documentation for this class has moved `AsyncResource`.

### Class: `AsyncLocalStorage`#

The documentation for this class has moved `AsyncLocalStorage`.

## Buffer#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/buffer.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/buffer.js)

`Buffer` objects are used to represent a fixed-length sequence of bytes. Many
Node.js APIs support `Buffer`s.

The `Buffer` class is a subclass of JavaScript's
[<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) class and extends
it with methods that cover additional use cases. Node.js APIs accept plain
[<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array)s wherever
`Buffer`s are supported as well.

While the `Buffer` class is available within the global scope, it is still
recommended to explicitly reference it via an import or require statement.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    // Creates a zero-filled Buffer of length 10.
    const buf1 = Buffer.alloc(10);
    
    // Creates a Buffer of length 10,
    // filled with bytes which all have the value `1`.
    const buf2 = Buffer.alloc(10, 1);
    
    // Creates an uninitialized buffer of length 10.
    // This is faster than calling Buffer.alloc() but the returned
    // Buffer instance might contain old data that needs to be
    // overwritten using fill(), write(), or other functions that fill the Buffer's
    // contents.
    const buf3 = Buffer.allocUnsafe(10);
    
    // Creates a Buffer containing the bytes [1, 2, 3].
    const buf4 = Buffer.from([1, 2, 3]);
    
    // Creates a Buffer containing the bytes [1, 1, 1, 1] – the entries
    // are all truncated using `(value & 255)` to fit into the range 0–255.
    const buf5 = Buffer.from([257, 257.5, -255, '1']);
    
    // Creates a Buffer containing the UTF-8-encoded bytes for the string 'tést':
    // [0x74, 0xc3, 0xa9, 0x73, 0x74] (in hexadecimal notation)
    // [116, 195, 169, 115, 116] (in decimal notation)
    const buf6 = Buffer.from('tést');
    
    // Creates a Buffer containing the Latin-1 bytes [0x74, 0xe9, 0x73, 0x74].
    const buf7 = Buffer.from('tést', 'latin1');const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    // Creates a zero-filled Buffer of length 10.
    const buf1 = Buffer.alloc(10);
    
    // Creates a Buffer of length 10,
    // filled with bytes which all have the value `1`.
    const buf2 = Buffer.alloc(10, 1);
    
    // Creates an uninitialized buffer of length 10.
    // This is faster than calling Buffer.alloc() but the returned
    // Buffer instance might contain old data that needs to be
    // overwritten using fill(), write(), or other functions that fill the Buffer's
    // contents.
    const buf3 = Buffer.allocUnsafe(10);
    
    // Creates a Buffer containing the bytes [1, 2, 3].
    const buf4 = Buffer.from([1, 2, 3]);
    
    // Creates a Buffer containing the bytes [1, 1, 1, 1] – the entries
    // are all truncated using `(value & 255)` to fit into the range 0–255.
    const buf5 = Buffer.from([257, 257.5, -255, '1']);
    
    // Creates a Buffer containing the UTF-8-encoded bytes for the string 'tést':
    // [0x74, 0xc3, 0xa9, 0x73, 0x74] (in hexadecimal notation)
    // [116, 195, 169, 115, 116] (in decimal notation)
    const buf6 = Buffer.from('tést');
    
    // Creates a Buffer containing the Latin-1 bytes [0x74, 0xe9, 0x73, 0x74].
    const buf7 = Buffer.from('tést', 'latin1');copy

### Buffers and character encodings#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.7.0, v14.18.0 | Introduced `base64url` encoding.  
v6.4.0 | Introduced `latin1` as an alias for `binary`.  
v5.0.0 | Removed the deprecated `raw` and `raws` encodings.  
  
When converting between `Buffer`s and strings, a character encoding may be
specified. If no character encoding is specified, UTF-8 will be used as the
default.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('hello world', 'utf8');
    
    console.log(buf.toString('hex'));
    // Prints: 68656c6c6f20776f726c64
    console.log(buf.toString('base64'));
    // Prints: aGVsbG8gd29ybGQ=
    
    console.log(Buffer.from('fhqwhgads', 'utf8'));
    // Prints: <Buffer 66 68 71 77 68 67 61 64 73>
    console.log(Buffer.from('fhqwhgads', 'utf16le'));
    // Prints: <Buffer 66 00 68 00 71 00 77 00 68 00 67 00 61 00 64 00 73 00>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('hello world', 'utf8');
    
    console.log(buf.toString('hex'));
    // Prints: 68656c6c6f20776f726c64
    console.log(buf.toString('base64'));
    // Prints: aGVsbG8gd29ybGQ=
    
    console.log(Buffer.from('fhqwhgads', 'utf8'));
    // Prints: <Buffer 66 68 71 77 68 67 61 64 73>
    console.log(Buffer.from('fhqwhgads', 'utf16le'));
    // Prints: <Buffer 66 00 68 00 71 00 77 00 68 00 67 00 61 00 64 00 73 00>copy

Node.js buffers accept all case variations of encoding strings that they
receive. For example, UTF-8 can be specified as `'utf8'`, `'UTF8'`, or
`'uTf8'`.

The character encodings currently supported by Node.js are the following:

  * `'utf8'` (alias: `'utf-8'`): Multi-byte encoded Unicode characters. Many web pages and other document formats use [UTF-8](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UTF-8). This is the default character encoding. When decoding a `Buffer` into a string that does not exclusively contain valid UTF-8 data, the Unicode replacement character `U+FFFD` � will be used to represent those errors.

  * `'utf16le'` (alias: `'utf-16le'`): Multi-byte encoded Unicode characters. Unlike `'utf8'`, each character in the string will be encoded using either 2 or 4 bytes. Node.js only supports the [little-endian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Endianness) variant of [UTF-16](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UTF-16).

  * `'latin1'`: Latin-1 stands for [ISO-8859-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO-8859-1). This character encoding only supports the Unicode characters from `U+0000` to `U+00FF`. Each character is encoded using a single byte. Characters that do not fit into that range are truncated and will be mapped to characters in that range.

Converting a `Buffer` into a string using one of the above is referred to as
decoding, and converting a string into a `Buffer` is referred to as encoding.

Node.js also supports the following binary-to-text encodings. For binary-to-
text encodings, the naming convention is reversed: Converting a `Buffer` into
a string is typically referred to as encoding, and converting a string into a
`Buffer` as decoding.

  * `'base64'`: [Base64](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base64) encoding. When creating a `Buffer` from a string, this encoding will also correctly accept "URL and Filename Safe Alphabet" as specified in [RFC 4648, Section 5](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4648#section-5). Whitespace characters such as spaces, tabs, and new lines contained within the base64-encoded string are ignored.

  * `'base64url'`: [base64url](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4648#section-5) encoding as specified in [RFC 4648, Section 5](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4648#section-5). When creating a `Buffer` from a string, this encoding will also correctly accept regular base64-encoded strings. When encoding a `Buffer` to a string, this encoding will omit padding.

  * `'hex'`: Encode each byte as two hexadecimal characters. Data truncation may occur when decoding strings that do not exclusively consist of an even number of hexadecimal characters. See below for an example.

The following legacy character encodings are also supported:

  * `'ascii'`: For 7-bit [ASCII](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII) data only. When encoding a string into a `Buffer`, this is equivalent to using `'latin1'`. When decoding a `Buffer` into a string, using this encoding will additionally unset the highest bit of each byte before decoding as `'latin1'`. Generally, there should be no reason to use this encoding, as `'utf8'` (or, if the data is known to always be ASCII-only, `'latin1'`) will be a better choice when encoding or decoding ASCII-only text. It is only provided for legacy compatibility.

  * `'binary'`: Alias for `'latin1'`. The name of this encoding can be very misleading, as all of the encodings listed here convert between strings and binary data. For converting between strings and `Buffer`s, typically `'utf8'` is the right choice.

  * `'ucs2'`, `'ucs-2'`: Aliases of `'utf16le'`. UCS-2 used to refer to a variant of UTF-16 that did not support characters that had code points larger than U+FFFF. In Node.js, these code points are always supported.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    Buffer.from('1ag123', 'hex');
    // Prints <Buffer 1a>, data truncated when first non-hexadecimal value
    // ('g') encountered.
    
    Buffer.from('1a7', 'hex');
    // Prints <Buffer 1a>, data truncated when data ends in single digit ('7').
    
    Buffer.from('1634', 'hex');
    // Prints <Buffer 16 34>, all data represented.const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    Buffer.from('1ag123', 'hex');
    // Prints <Buffer 1a>, data truncated when first non-hexadecimal value
    // ('g') encountered.
    
    Buffer.from('1a7', 'hex');
    // Prints <Buffer 1a>, data truncated when data ends in single digit ('7').
    
    Buffer.from('1634', 'hex');
    // Prints <Buffer 16 34>, all data represented.copy

Modern Web browsers follow the [WHATWG Encoding
Standard](https://encoding.spec.whatwg.org/) which aliases both `'latin1'` and
`'ISO-8859-1'` to `'win-1252'`. This means that while doing something like
`http.get()`, if the returned charset is one of those listed in the WHATWG
specification it is possible that the server actually returned
`'win-1252'`-encoded data, and using `'latin1'` encoding may incorrectly
decode the characters.

### Buffers and TypedArrays#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v3.0.0 | The `Buffer`s class now inherits from `Uint8Array`.  
  
`Buffer` instances are also JavaScript
[<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) and
[<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) instances. All
[<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) methods are
available on `Buffer`s. There are, however, subtle incompatibilities between
the `Buffer` API and the [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) API.

In particular:

  * While [`TypedArray.prototype.slice()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray/slice) creates a copy of part of the `TypedArray`, `Buffer.prototype.slice()` creates a view over the existing `Buffer` without copying. This behavior can be surprising, and only exists for legacy compatibility. [`TypedArray.prototype.subarray()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray/subarray) can be used to achieve the behavior of `Buffer.prototype.slice()` on both `Buffer`s and other `TypedArray`s and should be preferred.
  * `buf.toString()` is incompatible with its `TypedArray` equivalent.
  * A number of methods, e.g. `buf.indexOf()`, support additional arguments.

There are two ways to create new
[<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) instances from a
`Buffer`:

  * Passing a `Buffer` to a [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) constructor will copy the `Buffer`s contents, interpreted as an array of integers, and not as a byte sequence of the target type.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([1, 2, 3, 4]);
    const uint32array = new Uint32Array(buf);
    
    console.log(uint32array);
    
    // Prints: Uint32Array(4) [ 1, 2, 3, 4 ]const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([1, 2, 3, 4]);
    const uint32array = new Uint32Array(buf);
    
    console.log(uint32array);
    
    // Prints: Uint32Array(4) [ 1, 2, 3, 4 ]copy

  * Passing the `Buffer`s underlying [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) will create a [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) that shares its memory with the `Buffer`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('hello', 'utf16le');
    const uint16array = new Uint16Array(
      buf.buffer,
      buf.byteOffset,
      buf.length / Uint16Array.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT);
    
    console.log(uint16array);
    
    // Prints: Uint16Array(5) [ 104, 101, 108, 108, 111 ]const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('hello', 'utf16le');
    const uint16array = new Uint16Array(
      buf.buffer,
      buf.byteOffset,
      buf.length / Uint16Array.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT);
    
    console.log(uint16array);
    
    // Prints: Uint16Array(5) [ 104, 101, 108, 108, 111 ]copy

It is possible to create a new `Buffer` that shares the same allocated memory
as a [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) instance by using
the `TypedArray` object's `.buffer` property in the same way. `Buffer.from()`
behaves like `new Uint8Array()` in this context.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const arr = new Uint16Array(2);
    
    arr[0] = 5000;
    arr[1] = 4000;
    
    // Copies the contents of `arr`.
    const buf1 = Buffer.from(arr);
    
    // Shares memory with `arr`.
    const buf2 = Buffer.from(arr.buffer);
    
    console.log(buf1);
    // Prints: <Buffer 88 a0>
    console.log(buf2);
    // Prints: <Buffer 88 13 a0 0f>
    
    arr[1] = 6000;
    
    console.log(buf1);
    // Prints: <Buffer 88 a0>
    console.log(buf2);
    // Prints: <Buffer 88 13 70 17>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const arr = new Uint16Array(2);
    
    arr[0] = 5000;
    arr[1] = 4000;
    
    // Copies the contents of `arr`.
    const buf1 = Buffer.from(arr);
    
    // Shares memory with `arr`.
    const buf2 = Buffer.from(arr.buffer);
    
    console.log(buf1);
    // Prints: <Buffer 88 a0>
    console.log(buf2);
    // Prints: <Buffer 88 13 a0 0f>
    
    arr[1] = 6000;
    
    console.log(buf1);
    // Prints: <Buffer 88 a0>
    console.log(buf2);
    // Prints: <Buffer 88 13 70 17>copy

When creating a `Buffer` using a
[<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray)'s `.buffer`, it is
possible to use only a portion of the underlying
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) by passing in
`byteOffset` and `length` parameters.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const arr = new Uint16Array(20);
    const buf = Buffer.from(arr.buffer, 0, 16);
    
    console.log(buf.length);
    // Prints: 16const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const arr = new Uint16Array(20);
    const buf = Buffer.from(arr.buffer, 0, 16);
    
    console.log(buf.length);
    // Prints: 16copy

The `Buffer.from()` and
[`TypedArray.from()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray/from) have
different signatures and implementations. Specifically, the
[<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) variants accept a
second argument that is a mapping function that is invoked on every element of
the typed array:

  * `TypedArray.from(source[, mapFn[, thisArg]])`

The `Buffer.from()` method, however, does not support the use of a mapping
function:

  * `Buffer.from(array)`
  * `Buffer.from(buffer)`
  * `Buffer.from(arrayBuffer[, byteOffset[, length]])`
  * `Buffer.from(string[, encoding])`

### Buffers and iteration#

`Buffer` instances can be iterated over using `for..of` syntax:

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([1, 2, 3]);
    
    for (const b of buf) {
      console.log(b);
    }
    // Prints:
    //   1
    //   2
    //   3const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([1, 2, 3]);
    
    for (const b of buf) {
      console.log(b);
    }
    // Prints:
    //   1
    //   2
    //   3copy

Additionally, the `buf.values()`, `buf.keys()`, and `buf.entries()` methods
can be used to create iterators.

### Class: `Blob`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0, v16.17.0 | No longer experimental.  
v15.7.0, v14.18.0 | Added in: v15.7.0, v14.18.0  
  
A [`Blob`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Blob) encapsulates
immutable, raw data that can be safely shared across multiple worker threads.

#### `new buffer.Blob([sources[, options]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.7.0 | Added the standard `endings` option to replace line-endings, and removed the non-standard `encoding` option.  
v15.7.0, v14.18.0 | Added in: v15.7.0, v14.18.0  
  
  * `sources` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Blob[]> An array of string, [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer), [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray), [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView), or <Blob> objects, or any mix of such objects, that will be stored within the `Blob`.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `endings` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) One of either `'transparent'` or `'native'`. When set to `'native'`, line endings in string source parts will be converted to the platform native line-ending as specified by `require('node:os').EOL`.
    * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The Blob content-type. The intent is for `type` to convey the MIME media type of the data, however no validation of the type format is performed.

Creates a new `Blob` object containing a concatenation of the given sources.

[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer),
[<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray),
[<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView), and <Buffer>
sources are copied into the 'Blob' and can therefore be safely modified after
the 'Blob' is created.

String sources are encoded as UTF-8 byte sequences and copied into the Blob.
Unmatched surrogate pairs within each string part will be replaced by Unicode
U+FFFD replacement characters.

#### `blob.arrayBuffer()`#

Added in: v15.7.0, v14.18.0

  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Returns a promise that fulfills with an
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) containing a copy
of the `Blob` data.

##### `blob.bytes()`#

Added in: v22.3.0, v20.16.0

The `blob.bytes()` method returns the byte of the `Blob` object as a
`Promise<Uint8Array>`.

    
    
    const blob = new Blob(['hello']);
    blob.bytes().then((bytes) => {
      console.log(bytes); // Outputs: Uint8Array(5) [ 104, 101, 108, 108, 111 ]
    }); copy

#### `blob.size`#

Added in: v15.7.0, v14.18.0

The total size of the `Blob` in bytes.

#### `blob.slice([start[, end[, type]]])`#

Added in: v15.7.0, v14.18.0

  * `start` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The starting index.
  * `end` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The ending index.
  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The content-type for the new `Blob`

Creates and returns a new `Blob` containing a subset of this `Blob` objects
data. The original `Blob` is not altered.

#### `blob.stream()`#

Added in: v16.7.0

  * Returns: <ReadableStream>

Returns a new `ReadableStream` that allows the content of the `Blob` to be
read.

#### `blob.text()`#

Added in: v15.7.0, v14.18.0

  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Returns a promise that fulfills with the contents of the `Blob` decoded as a
UTF-8 string.

#### `blob.type`#

Added in: v15.7.0, v14.18.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The content-type of the `Blob`.

#### `Blob` objects and `MessageChannel`#

Once a <Blob> object is created, it can be sent via `MessagePort` to multiple
destinations without transferring or immediately copying the data. The data
contained by the `Blob` is copied only when the `arrayBuffer()` or `text()`
methods are called.

    
    
    import { Blob } from 'node:buffer';
    import { setTimeout as delay } from 'node:timers/promises';
    
    const blob = new Blob(['hello there']);
    
    const mc1 = new MessageChannel();
    const mc2 = new MessageChannel();
    
    mc1.port1.onmessage = async ({ data }) => {
      console.log(await data.arrayBuffer());
      mc1.port1.close();
    };
    
    mc2.port1.onmessage = async ({ data }) => {
      await delay(1000);
      console.log(await data.arrayBuffer());
      mc2.port1.close();
    };
    
    mc1.port2.postMessage(blob);
    mc2.port2.postMessage(blob);
    
    // The Blob is still usable after posting.
    blob.text().then(console.log);const { Blob } = require('node:buffer');
    const { setTimeout: delay } = require('node:timers/promises');
    
    const blob = new Blob(['hello there']);
    
    const mc1 = new MessageChannel();
    const mc2 = new MessageChannel();
    
    mc1.port1.onmessage = async ({ data }) => {
      console.log(await data.arrayBuffer());
      mc1.port1.close();
    };
    
    mc2.port1.onmessage = async ({ data }) => {
      await delay(1000);
      console.log(await data.arrayBuffer());
      mc2.port1.close();
    };
    
    mc1.port2.postMessage(blob);
    mc2.port2.postMessage(blob);
    
    // The Blob is still usable after posting.
    blob.text().then(console.log);copy

### Class: `Buffer`#

The `Buffer` class is a global type for dealing with binary data directly. It
can be constructed in a variety of ways.

#### Static method: `Buffer.alloc(size[, fill[, encoding]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | Throw ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE or ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE instead of ERR_INVALID_ARG_VALUE for invalid input arguments.  
v15.0.0 | Throw ERR_INVALID_ARG_VALUE instead of ERR_INVALID_OPT_VALUE for invalid input arguments.  
v10.0.0 | Attempting to fill a non-zero length buffer with a zero length buffer triggers a thrown exception.  
v10.0.0 | Specifying an invalid string for `fill` triggers a thrown exception.  
v8.9.3 | Specifying an invalid string for `fill` now results in a zero-filled buffer.  
v5.10.0 | Added in: v5.10.0  
  
  * `size` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The desired length of the new `Buffer`.
  * `fill` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A value to pre-fill the new `Buffer` with. **Default:** `0`.
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If `fill` is a string, this is its encoding. **Default:** `'utf8'`.
  * Returns: <Buffer>

Allocates a new `Buffer` of `size` bytes. If `fill` is `undefined`, the
`Buffer` will be zero-filled.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.alloc(5);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 00 00 00 00 00>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.alloc(5);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 00 00 00 00 00>copy

If `size` is larger than `buffer.constants.MAX_LENGTH` or smaller than 0,
`ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE` is thrown.

If `fill` is specified, the allocated `Buffer` will be initialized by calling
`buf.fill(fill)`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.alloc(5, 'a');
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 61 61 61 61 61>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.alloc(5, 'a');
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 61 61 61 61 61>copy

If both `fill` and `encoding` are specified, the allocated `Buffer` will be
initialized by calling `buf.fill(fill, encoding)`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.alloc(11, 'aGVsbG8gd29ybGQ=', 'base64');
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 68 65 6c 6c 6f 20 77 6f 72 6c 64>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.alloc(11, 'aGVsbG8gd29ybGQ=', 'base64');
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 68 65 6c 6c 6f 20 77 6f 72 6c 64>copy

Calling `Buffer.alloc()` can be measurably slower than the alternative
`Buffer.allocUnsafe()` but ensures that the newly created `Buffer` instance
contents will never contain sensitive data from previous allocations,
including data that might not have been allocated for `Buffer`s.

A `TypeError` will be thrown if `size` is not a number.

#### Static method: `Buffer.allocUnsafe(size)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | Throw ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE or ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE instead of ERR_INVALID_ARG_VALUE for invalid input arguments.  
v15.0.0 | Throw ERR_INVALID_ARG_VALUE instead of ERR_INVALID_OPT_VALUE for invalid input arguments.  
v7.0.0 | Passing a negative `size` will now throw an error.  
v5.10.0 | Added in: v5.10.0  
  
  * `size` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The desired length of the new `Buffer`.
  * Returns: <Buffer>

Allocates a new `Buffer` of `size` bytes. If `size` is larger than
`buffer.constants.MAX_LENGTH` or smaller than 0, `ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE` is thrown.

The underlying memory for `Buffer` instances created in this way is _not
initialized_. The contents of the newly created `Buffer` are unknown and _may
contain sensitive data_. Use `Buffer.alloc()` instead to initialize `Buffer`
instances with zeroes.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(10);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints (contents may vary): <Buffer a0 8b 28 3f 01 00 00 00 50 32>
    
    buf.fill(0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(10);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints (contents may vary): <Buffer a0 8b 28 3f 01 00 00 00 50 32>
    
    buf.fill(0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00>copy

A `TypeError` will be thrown if `size` is not a number.

The `Buffer` module pre-allocates an internal `Buffer` instance of size
`Buffer.poolSize` that is used as a pool for the fast allocation of new
`Buffer` instances created using `Buffer.allocUnsafe()`, `Buffer.from(array)`,
`Buffer.from(string)`, and `Buffer.concat()` only when `size` is less than
`Buffer.poolSize >>> 1` (floor of `Buffer.poolSize` divided by two).

Use of this pre-allocated internal memory pool is a key difference between
calling `Buffer.alloc(size, fill)` vs. `Buffer.allocUnsafe(size).fill(fill)`.
Specifically, `Buffer.alloc(size, fill)` will _never_ use the internal
`Buffer` pool, while `Buffer.allocUnsafe(size).fill(fill)` _will_ use the
internal `Buffer` pool if `size` is less than or equal to half
`Buffer.poolSize`. The difference is subtle but can be important when an
application requires the additional performance that `Buffer.allocUnsafe()`
provides.

#### Static method: `Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow(size)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | Throw ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE or ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE instead of ERR_INVALID_ARG_VALUE for invalid input arguments.  
v15.0.0 | Throw ERR_INVALID_ARG_VALUE instead of ERR_INVALID_OPT_VALUE for invalid input arguments.  
v5.12.0 | Added in: v5.12.0  
  
  * `size` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The desired length of the new `Buffer`.
  * Returns: <Buffer>

Allocates a new `Buffer` of `size` bytes. If `size` is larger than
`buffer.constants.MAX_LENGTH` or smaller than 0, `ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE` is thrown.
A zero-length `Buffer` is created if `size` is 0.

The underlying memory for `Buffer` instances created in this way is _not
initialized_. The contents of the newly created `Buffer` are unknown and _may
contain sensitive data_. Use `buf.fill(0)` to initialize such `Buffer`
instances with zeroes.

When using `Buffer.allocUnsafe()` to allocate new `Buffer` instances,
allocations less than `Buffer.poolSize >>> 1` (4KiB when default poolSize is
used) are sliced from a single pre-allocated `Buffer`. This allows
applications to avoid the garbage collection overhead of creating many
individually allocated `Buffer` instances. This approach improves both
performance and memory usage by eliminating the need to track and clean up as
many individual `ArrayBuffer` objects.

However, in the case where a developer may need to retain a small chunk of
memory from a pool for an indeterminate amount of time, it may be appropriate
to create an un-pooled `Buffer` instance using `Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow()` and
then copying out the relevant bits.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    // Need to keep around a few small chunks of memory.
    const store = [];
    
    socket.on('readable', () => {
      let data;
      while (null !== (data = readable.read())) {
        // Allocate for retained data.
        const sb = Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow(10);
    
        // Copy the data into the new allocation.
        data.copy(sb, 0, 0, 10);
    
        store.push(sb);
      }
    });const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    // Need to keep around a few small chunks of memory.
    const store = [];
    
    socket.on('readable', () => {
      let data;
      while (null !== (data = readable.read())) {
        // Allocate for retained data.
        const sb = Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow(10);
    
        // Copy the data into the new allocation.
        data.copy(sb, 0, 0, 10);
    
        store.push(sb);
      }
    });copy

A `TypeError` will be thrown if `size` is not a number.

#### Static method: `Buffer.byteLength(string[, encoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v7.0.0 | Passing invalid input will now throw an error.  
v5.10.0 | The `string` parameter can now be any `TypedArray`, `DataView` or `ArrayBuffer`.  
v0.1.90 | Added in: v0.1.90  
  
  * `string` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer) A value to calculate the length of.
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If `string` is a string, this is its encoding. **Default:** `'utf8'`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes contained within `string`.

Returns the byte length of a string when encoded using `encoding`. This is not
the same as [`String.prototype.length`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/length), which does not
account for the encoding that is used to convert the string into bytes.

For `'base64'`, `'base64url'`, and `'hex'`, this function assumes valid input.
For strings that contain non-base64/hex-encoded data (e.g. whitespace), the
return value might be greater than the length of a `Buffer` created from the
string.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const str = '\u00bd + \u00bc = \u00be';
    
    console.log(`${str}: ${str.length} characters, ` +
                `${Buffer.byteLength(str, 'utf8')} bytes`);
    // Prints: ½ + ¼ = ¾: 9 characters, 12 bytesconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const str = '\u00bd + \u00bc = \u00be';
    
    console.log(`${str}: ${str.length} characters, ` +
                `${Buffer.byteLength(str, 'utf8')} bytes`);
    // Prints: ½ + ¼ = ¾: 9 characters, 12 bytescopy

When `string` is a <Buffer> | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer), the byte length as reported by `.byteLength` is returned.

#### Static method: `Buffer.compare(buf1, buf2)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | The arguments can now be `Uint8Array`s.  
v0.11.13 | Added in: v0.11.13  
  
  * `buf1` <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array)
  * `buf2` <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array)
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Either `-1`, `0`, or `1`, depending on the result of the comparison. See `buf.compare()` for details.

Compares `buf1` to `buf2`, typically for the purpose of sorting arrays of
`Buffer` instances. This is equivalent to calling `buf1.compare(buf2)`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from('1234');
    const buf2 = Buffer.from('0123');
    const arr = [buf1, buf2];
    
    console.log(arr.sort(Buffer.compare));
    // Prints: [ <Buffer 30 31 32 33>, <Buffer 31 32 33 34> ]
    // (This result is equal to: [buf2, buf1].)const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from('1234');
    const buf2 = Buffer.from('0123');
    const arr = [buf1, buf2];
    
    console.log(arr.sort(Buffer.compare));
    // Prints: [ <Buffer 30 31 32 33>, <Buffer 31 32 33 34> ]
    // (This result is equal to: [buf2, buf1].)copy

#### Static method: `Buffer.concat(list[, totalLength])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | The elements of `list` can now be `Uint8Array`s.  
v0.7.11 | Added in: v0.7.11  
  
  * `list` <Buffer[]> | [<Uint8Array[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) List of `Buffer` or [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) instances to concatenate.
  * `totalLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Total length of the `Buffer` instances in `list` when concatenated.
  * Returns: <Buffer>

Returns a new `Buffer` which is the result of concatenating all the `Buffer`
instances in the `list` together.

If the list has no items, or if the `totalLength` is 0, then a new zero-length
`Buffer` is returned.

If `totalLength` is not provided, it is calculated from the `Buffer` instances
in `list` by adding their lengths.

If `totalLength` is provided, it is coerced to an unsigned integer. If the
combined length of the `Buffer`s in `list` exceeds `totalLength`, the result
is truncated to `totalLength`. If the combined length of the `Buffer`s in
`list` is less than `totalLength`, the remaining space is filled with zeros.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    // Create a single `Buffer` from a list of three `Buffer` instances.
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.alloc(10);
    const buf2 = Buffer.alloc(14);
    const buf3 = Buffer.alloc(18);
    const totalLength = buf1.length + buf2.length + buf3.length;
    
    console.log(totalLength);
    // Prints: 42
    
    const bufA = Buffer.concat([buf1, buf2, buf3], totalLength);
    
    console.log(bufA);
    // Prints: <Buffer 00 00 00 00 ...>
    console.log(bufA.length);
    // Prints: 42const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    // Create a single `Buffer` from a list of three `Buffer` instances.
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.alloc(10);
    const buf2 = Buffer.alloc(14);
    const buf3 = Buffer.alloc(18);
    const totalLength = buf1.length + buf2.length + buf3.length;
    
    console.log(totalLength);
    // Prints: 42
    
    const bufA = Buffer.concat([buf1, buf2, buf3], totalLength);
    
    console.log(bufA);
    // Prints: <Buffer 00 00 00 00 ...>
    console.log(bufA.length);
    // Prints: 42copy

`Buffer.concat()` may also use the internal `Buffer` pool like
`Buffer.allocUnsafe()` does.

#### Static method: `Buffer.copyBytesFrom(view[, offset[, length]])`#

Added in: v19.8.0, v18.16.0

  * `view` [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) The [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) to copy.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The starting offset within `view`. **Default:** `0`.
  * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of elements from `view` to copy. **Default:** `view.length - offset`.
  * Returns: <Buffer>

Copies the underlying memory of `view` into a new `Buffer`.

    
    
    const u16 = new Uint16Array([0, 0xffff]);
    const buf = Buffer.copyBytesFrom(u16, 1, 1);
    u16[1] = 0;
    console.log(buf.length); // 2
    console.log(buf[0]); // 255
    console.log(buf[1]); // 255 copy

#### Static method: `Buffer.from(array)`#

Added in: v5.10.0

  * `array` [<integer[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * Returns: <Buffer>

Allocates a new `Buffer` using an `array` of bytes in the range `0` – `255`.
Array entries outside that range will be truncated to fit into it.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    // Creates a new Buffer containing the UTF-8 bytes of the string 'buffer'.
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x62, 0x75, 0x66, 0x66, 0x65, 0x72]);const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    // Creates a new Buffer containing the UTF-8 bytes of the string 'buffer'.
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x62, 0x75, 0x66, 0x66, 0x65, 0x72]);copy

If `array` is an `Array`-like object (that is, one with a `length` property of
type `number`), it is treated as if it is an array, unless it is a `Buffer` or
a `Uint8Array`. This means all other `TypedArray` variants get treated as an
`Array`. To create a `Buffer` from the bytes backing a `TypedArray`, use
`Buffer.copyBytesFrom()`.

A `TypeError` will be thrown if `array` is not an `Array` or another type
appropriate for `Buffer.from()` variants.

`Buffer.from(array)` and `Buffer.from(string)` may also use the internal
`Buffer` pool like `Buffer.allocUnsafe()` does.

#### Static method: `Buffer.from(arrayBuffer[, byteOffset[, length]])`#

Added in: v5.10.0

  * `arrayBuffer` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer) An [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer), [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer), for example the `.buffer` property of a [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray).
  * `byteOffset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Index of first byte to expose. **Default:** `0`.
  * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to expose. **Default:** `arrayBuffer.byteLength - byteOffset`.
  * Returns: <Buffer>

This creates a view of the [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) without copying
the underlying memory. For example, when passed a reference to the `.buffer`
property of a [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) instance, the
newly created `Buffer` will share the same allocated memory as the
[<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray)'s underlying
`ArrayBuffer`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const arr = new Uint16Array(2);
    
    arr[0] = 5000;
    arr[1] = 4000;
    
    // Shares memory with `arr`.
    const buf = Buffer.from(arr.buffer);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 88 13 a0 0f>
    
    // Changing the original Uint16Array changes the Buffer also.
    arr[1] = 6000;
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 88 13 70 17>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const arr = new Uint16Array(2);
    
    arr[0] = 5000;
    arr[1] = 4000;
    
    // Shares memory with `arr`.
    const buf = Buffer.from(arr.buffer);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 88 13 a0 0f>
    
    // Changing the original Uint16Array changes the Buffer also.
    arr[1] = 6000;
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 88 13 70 17>copy

The optional `byteOffset` and `length` arguments specify a memory range within
the `arrayBuffer` that will be shared by the `Buffer`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const ab = new ArrayBuffer(10);
    const buf = Buffer.from(ab, 0, 2);
    
    console.log(buf.length);
    // Prints: 2const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const ab = new ArrayBuffer(10);
    const buf = Buffer.from(ab, 0, 2);
    
    console.log(buf.length);
    // Prints: 2copy

A `TypeError` will be thrown if `arrayBuffer` is not an
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) or a
[<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer) or another
type appropriate for `Buffer.from()` variants.

It is important to remember that a backing `ArrayBuffer` can cover a range of
memory that extends beyond the bounds of a `TypedArray` view. A new `Buffer`
created using the `buffer` property of a `TypedArray` may extend beyond the
range of the `TypedArray`:

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const arrA = Uint8Array.from([0x63, 0x64, 0x65, 0x66]); // 4 elements
    const arrB = new Uint8Array(arrA.buffer, 1, 2); // 2 elements
    console.log(arrA.buffer === arrB.buffer); // true
    
    const buf = Buffer.from(arrB.buffer);
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 63 64 65 66>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const arrA = Uint8Array.from([0x63, 0x64, 0x65, 0x66]); // 4 elements
    const arrB = new Uint8Array(arrA.buffer, 1, 2); // 2 elements
    console.log(arrA.buffer === arrB.buffer); // true
    
    const buf = Buffer.from(arrB.buffer);
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 63 64 65 66>copy

#### Static method: `Buffer.from(buffer)`#

Added in: v5.10.0

  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) An existing `Buffer` or [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) from which to copy data.
  * Returns: <Buffer>

Copies the passed `buffer` data onto a new `Buffer` instance.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from('buffer');
    const buf2 = Buffer.from(buf1);
    
    buf1[0] = 0x61;
    
    console.log(buf1.toString());
    // Prints: auffer
    console.log(buf2.toString());
    // Prints: bufferconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from('buffer');
    const buf2 = Buffer.from(buf1);
    
    buf1[0] = 0x61;
    
    console.log(buf1.toString());
    // Prints: auffer
    console.log(buf2.toString());
    // Prints: buffercopy

A `TypeError` will be thrown if `buffer` is not a `Buffer` or another type
appropriate for `Buffer.from()` variants.

#### Static method: `Buffer.from(object[, offsetOrEncoding[, length]])`#

Added in: v8.2.0

  * `object` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An object supporting `Symbol.toPrimitive` or `valueOf()`.
  * `offsetOrEncoding` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A byte-offset or encoding.
  * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A length.
  * Returns: <Buffer>

For objects whose `valueOf()` function returns a value not strictly equal to
`object`, returns `Buffer.from(object.valueOf(), offsetOrEncoding, length)`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from(new String('this is a test'));
    // Prints: <Buffer 74 68 69 73 20 69 73 20 61 20 74 65 73 74>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from(new String('this is a test'));
    // Prints: <Buffer 74 68 69 73 20 69 73 20 61 20 74 65 73 74>copy

For objects that support `Symbol.toPrimitive`, returns
`Buffer.from(object[Symbol.toPrimitive]('string'), offsetOrEncoding)`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    class Foo {
      [Symbol.toPrimitive]() {
        return 'this is a test';
      }
    }
    
    const buf = Buffer.from(new Foo(), 'utf8');
    // Prints: <Buffer 74 68 69 73 20 69 73 20 61 20 74 65 73 74>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    class Foo {
      [Symbol.toPrimitive]() {
        return 'this is a test';
      }
    }
    
    const buf = Buffer.from(new Foo(), 'utf8');
    // Prints: <Buffer 74 68 69 73 20 69 73 20 61 20 74 65 73 74>copy

A `TypeError` will be thrown if `object` does not have the mentioned methods
or is not of another type appropriate for `Buffer.from()` variants.

#### Static method: `Buffer.from(string[, encoding])`#

Added in: v5.10.0

  * `string` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A string to encode.
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of `string`. **Default:** `'utf8'`.
  * Returns: <Buffer>

Creates a new `Buffer` containing `string`. The `encoding` parameter
identifies the character encoding to be used when converting `string` into
bytes.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from('this is a tést');
    const buf2 = Buffer.from('7468697320697320612074c3a97374', 'hex');
    
    console.log(buf1.toString());
    // Prints: this is a tést
    console.log(buf2.toString());
    // Prints: this is a tést
    console.log(buf1.toString('latin1'));
    // Prints: this is a tÃ©stconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from('this is a tést');
    const buf2 = Buffer.from('7468697320697320612074c3a97374', 'hex');
    
    console.log(buf1.toString());
    // Prints: this is a tést
    console.log(buf2.toString());
    // Prints: this is a tést
    console.log(buf1.toString('latin1'));
    // Prints: this is a tÃ©stcopy

A `TypeError` will be thrown if `string` is not a string or another type
appropriate for `Buffer.from()` variants.

`Buffer.from(string)` may also use the internal `Buffer` pool like
`Buffer.allocUnsafe()` does.

#### Static method: `Buffer.isBuffer(obj)`#

Added in: v0.1.101

  * `obj` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if `obj` is a `Buffer`, `false` otherwise.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    Buffer.isBuffer(Buffer.alloc(10)); // true
    Buffer.isBuffer(Buffer.from('foo')); // true
    Buffer.isBuffer('a string'); // false
    Buffer.isBuffer([]); // false
    Buffer.isBuffer(new Uint8Array(1024)); // falseconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    Buffer.isBuffer(Buffer.alloc(10)); // true
    Buffer.isBuffer(Buffer.from('foo')); // true
    Buffer.isBuffer('a string'); // false
    Buffer.isBuffer([]); // false
    Buffer.isBuffer(new Uint8Array(1024)); // falsecopy

#### Static method: `Buffer.isEncoding(encoding)`#

Added in: v0.9.1

  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A character encoding name to check.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if `encoding` is the name of a supported character encoding, or
`false` otherwise.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    console.log(Buffer.isEncoding('utf8'));
    // Prints: true
    
    console.log(Buffer.isEncoding('hex'));
    // Prints: true
    
    console.log(Buffer.isEncoding('utf/8'));
    // Prints: false
    
    console.log(Buffer.isEncoding(''));
    // Prints: falseconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    console.log(Buffer.isEncoding('utf8'));
    // Prints: true
    
    console.log(Buffer.isEncoding('hex'));
    // Prints: true
    
    console.log(Buffer.isEncoding('utf/8'));
    // Prints: false
    
    console.log(Buffer.isEncoding(''));
    // Prints: falsecopy

#### Class property: `Buffer.poolSize`#

Added in: v0.11.3

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `8192`

This is the size (in bytes) of pre-allocated internal `Buffer` instances used
for pooling. This value may be modified.

#### `buf[index]`#

  * `index` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The index operator `[index]` can be used to get and set the octet at position
`index` in `buf`. The values refer to individual bytes, so the legal value
range is between `0x00` and `0xFF` (hex) or `0` and `255` (decimal).

This operator is inherited from `Uint8Array`, so its behavior on out-of-bounds
access is the same as `Uint8Array`. In other words, `buf[index]` returns
`undefined` when `index` is negative or greater or equal to `buf.length`, and
`buf[index] = value` does not modify the buffer if `index` is negative or `>=
buf.length`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    // Copy an ASCII string into a `Buffer` one byte at a time.
    // (This only works for ASCII-only strings. In general, one should use
    // `Buffer.from()` to perform this conversion.)
    
    const str = 'Node.js';
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(str.length);
    
    for (let i = 0; i < str.length; i++) {
      buf[i] = str.charCodeAt(i);
    }
    
    console.log(buf.toString('utf8'));
    // Prints: Node.jsconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    // Copy an ASCII string into a `Buffer` one byte at a time.
    // (This only works for ASCII-only strings. In general, one should use
    // `Buffer.from()` to perform this conversion.)
    
    const str = 'Node.js';
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(str.length);
    
    for (let i = 0; i < str.length; i++) {
      buf[i] = str.charCodeAt(i);
    }
    
    console.log(buf.toString('utf8'));
    // Prints: Node.jscopy

#### `buf.buffer`#

  * [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) The underlying `ArrayBuffer` object based on which this `Buffer` object is created.

This `ArrayBuffer` is not guaranteed to correspond exactly to the original
`Buffer`. See the notes on `buf.byteOffset` for details.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const arrayBuffer = new ArrayBuffer(16);
    const buffer = Buffer.from(arrayBuffer);
    
    console.log(buffer.buffer === arrayBuffer);
    // Prints: trueconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const arrayBuffer = new ArrayBuffer(16);
    const buffer = Buffer.from(arrayBuffer);
    
    console.log(buffer.buffer === arrayBuffer);
    // Prints: truecopy

#### `buf.byteOffset`#

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The `byteOffset` of the `Buffer`s underlying `ArrayBuffer` object.

When setting `byteOffset` in `Buffer.from(ArrayBuffer, byteOffset, length)`,
or sometimes when allocating a `Buffer` smaller than `Buffer.poolSize`, the
buffer does not start from a zero offset on the underlying `ArrayBuffer`.

This can cause problems when accessing the underlying `ArrayBuffer` directly
using `buf.buffer`, as other parts of the `ArrayBuffer` may be unrelated to
the `Buffer` object itself.

A common issue when creating a `TypedArray` object that shares its memory with
a `Buffer` is that in this case one needs to specify the `byteOffset`
correctly:

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    // Create a buffer smaller than `Buffer.poolSize`.
    const nodeBuffer = Buffer.from([0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]);
    
    // When casting the Node.js Buffer to an Int8Array, use the byteOffset
    // to refer only to the part of `nodeBuffer.buffer` that contains the memory
    // for `nodeBuffer`.
    new Int8Array(nodeBuffer.buffer, nodeBuffer.byteOffset, nodeBuffer.length);const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    // Create a buffer smaller than `Buffer.poolSize`.
    const nodeBuffer = Buffer.from([0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]);
    
    // When casting the Node.js Buffer to an Int8Array, use the byteOffset
    // to refer only to the part of `nodeBuffer.buffer` that contains the memory
    // for `nodeBuffer`.
    new Int8Array(nodeBuffer.buffer, nodeBuffer.byteOffset, nodeBuffer.length);copy

#### `buf.compare(target[, targetStart[, targetEnd[, sourceStart[,
sourceEnd]]]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | The `target` parameter can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v5.11.0 | Additional parameters for specifying offsets are supported now.  
v0.11.13 | Added in: v0.11.13  
  
  * `target` <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) A `Buffer` or [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) with which to compare `buf`.
  * `targetStart` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The offset within `target` at which to begin comparison. **Default:** `0`.
  * `targetEnd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The offset within `target` at which to end comparison (not inclusive). **Default:** `target.length`.
  * `sourceStart` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The offset within `buf` at which to begin comparison. **Default:** `0`.
  * `sourceEnd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The offset within `buf` at which to end comparison (not inclusive). **Default:** `buf.length`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Compares `buf` with `target` and returns a number indicating whether `buf`
comes before, after, or is the same as `target` in sort order. Comparison is
based on the actual sequence of bytes in each `Buffer`.

  * `0` is returned if `target` is the same as `buf`
  * `1` is returned if `target` should come _before_ `buf` when sorted.
  * `-1` is returned if `target` should come _after_ `buf` when sorted.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from('ABC');
    const buf2 = Buffer.from('BCD');
    const buf3 = Buffer.from('ABCD');
    
    console.log(buf1.compare(buf1));
    // Prints: 0
    console.log(buf1.compare(buf2));
    // Prints: -1
    console.log(buf1.compare(buf3));
    // Prints: -1
    console.log(buf2.compare(buf1));
    // Prints: 1
    console.log(buf2.compare(buf3));
    // Prints: 1
    console.log([buf1, buf2, buf3].sort(Buffer.compare));
    // Prints: [ <Buffer 41 42 43>, <Buffer 41 42 43 44>, <Buffer 42 43 44> ]
    // (This result is equal to: [buf1, buf3, buf2].)const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from('ABC');
    const buf2 = Buffer.from('BCD');
    const buf3 = Buffer.from('ABCD');
    
    console.log(buf1.compare(buf1));
    // Prints: 0
    console.log(buf1.compare(buf2));
    // Prints: -1
    console.log(buf1.compare(buf3));
    // Prints: -1
    console.log(buf2.compare(buf1));
    // Prints: 1
    console.log(buf2.compare(buf3));
    // Prints: 1
    console.log([buf1, buf2, buf3].sort(Buffer.compare));
    // Prints: [ <Buffer 41 42 43>, <Buffer 41 42 43 44>, <Buffer 42 43 44> ]
    // (This result is equal to: [buf1, buf3, buf2].)copy

The optional `targetStart`, `targetEnd`, `sourceStart`, and `sourceEnd`
arguments can be used to limit the comparison to specific ranges within
`target` and `buf` respectively.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]);
    const buf2 = Buffer.from([5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 1, 2, 3, 4]);
    
    console.log(buf1.compare(buf2, 5, 9, 0, 4));
    // Prints: 0
    console.log(buf1.compare(buf2, 0, 6, 4));
    // Prints: -1
    console.log(buf1.compare(buf2, 5, 6, 5));
    // Prints: 1const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9]);
    const buf2 = Buffer.from([5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 1, 2, 3, 4]);
    
    console.log(buf1.compare(buf2, 5, 9, 0, 4));
    // Prints: 0
    console.log(buf1.compare(buf2, 0, 6, 4));
    // Prints: -1
    console.log(buf1.compare(buf2, 5, 6, 5));
    // Prints: 1copy

`ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE` is thrown if `targetStart < 0`, `sourceStart < 0`,
`targetEnd > target.byteLength`, or `sourceEnd > source.byteLength`.

#### `buf.copy(target[, targetStart[, sourceStart[, sourceEnd]]])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `target` <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) A `Buffer` or [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) to copy into.
  * `targetStart` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The offset within `target` at which to begin writing. **Default:** `0`.
  * `sourceStart` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The offset within `buf` from which to begin copying. **Default:** `0`.
  * `sourceEnd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The offset within `buf` at which to stop copying (not inclusive). **Default:** `buf.length`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes copied.

Copies data from a region of `buf` to a region in `target`, even if the
`target` memory region overlaps with `buf`.

[`TypedArray.prototype.set()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray/set) performs the
same operation, and is available for all TypedArrays, including Node.js
`Buffer`s, although it takes different function arguments.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    // Create two `Buffer` instances.
    const buf1 = Buffer.allocUnsafe(26);
    const buf2 = Buffer.allocUnsafe(26).fill('!');
    
    for (let i = 0; i < 26; i++) {
      // 97 is the decimal ASCII value for 'a'.
      buf1[i] = i + 97;
    }
    
    // Copy `buf1` bytes 16 through 19 into `buf2` starting at byte 8 of `buf2`.
    buf1.copy(buf2, 8, 16, 20);
    // This is equivalent to:
    // buf2.set(buf1.subarray(16, 20), 8);
    
    console.log(buf2.toString('ascii', 0, 25));
    // Prints: !!!!!!!!qrst!!!!!!!!!!!!!const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    // Create two `Buffer` instances.
    const buf1 = Buffer.allocUnsafe(26);
    const buf2 = Buffer.allocUnsafe(26).fill('!');
    
    for (let i = 0; i < 26; i++) {
      // 97 is the decimal ASCII value for 'a'.
      buf1[i] = i + 97;
    }
    
    // Copy `buf1` bytes 16 through 19 into `buf2` starting at byte 8 of `buf2`.
    buf1.copy(buf2, 8, 16, 20);
    // This is equivalent to:
    // buf2.set(buf1.subarray(16, 20), 8);
    
    console.log(buf2.toString('ascii', 0, 25));
    // Prints: !!!!!!!!qrst!!!!!!!!!!!!!copy
    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    // Create a `Buffer` and copy data from one region to an overlapping region
    // within the same `Buffer`.
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(26);
    
    for (let i = 0; i < 26; i++) {
      // 97 is the decimal ASCII value for 'a'.
      buf[i] = i + 97;
    }
    
    buf.copy(buf, 0, 4, 10);
    
    console.log(buf.toString());
    // Prints: efghijghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    // Create a `Buffer` and copy data from one region to an overlapping region
    // within the same `Buffer`.
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(26);
    
    for (let i = 0; i < 26; i++) {
      // 97 is the decimal ASCII value for 'a'.
      buf[i] = i + 97;
    }
    
    buf.copy(buf, 0, 4, 10);
    
    console.log(buf.toString());
    // Prints: efghijghijklmnopqrstuvwxyzcopy

#### `buf.entries()`#

Added in: v1.1.0

  * Returns: [<Iterator>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterator_protocol)

Creates and returns an [iterator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols) of `[index, byte]` pairs
from the contents of `buf`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    // Log the entire contents of a `Buffer`.
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('buffer');
    
    for (const pair of buf.entries()) {
      console.log(pair);
    }
    // Prints:
    //   [0, 98]
    //   [1, 117]
    //   [2, 102]
    //   [3, 102]
    //   [4, 101]
    //   [5, 114]const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    // Log the entire contents of a `Buffer`.
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('buffer');
    
    for (const pair of buf.entries()) {
      console.log(pair);
    }
    // Prints:
    //   [0, 98]
    //   [1, 117]
    //   [2, 102]
    //   [3, 102]
    //   [4, 101]
    //   [5, 114]copy

#### `buf.equals(otherBuffer)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | The arguments can now be `Uint8Array`s.  
v0.11.13 | Added in: v0.11.13  
  
  * `otherBuffer` <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) A `Buffer` or [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) with which to compare `buf`.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if both `buf` and `otherBuffer` have exactly the same bytes,
`false` otherwise. Equivalent to `buf.compare(otherBuffer) === 0`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from('ABC');
    const buf2 = Buffer.from('414243', 'hex');
    const buf3 = Buffer.from('ABCD');
    
    console.log(buf1.equals(buf2));
    // Prints: true
    console.log(buf1.equals(buf3));
    // Prints: falseconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from('ABC');
    const buf2 = Buffer.from('414243', 'hex');
    const buf3 = Buffer.from('ABCD');
    
    console.log(buf1.equals(buf2));
    // Prints: true
    console.log(buf1.equals(buf3));
    // Prints: falsecopy

#### `buf.fill(value[, offset[, end]][, encoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.0.0 | Throws `ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE` instead of `ERR_INDEX_OUT_OF_RANGE`.  
v10.0.0 | Negative `end` values throw an `ERR_INDEX_OUT_OF_RANGE` error.  
v10.0.0 | Attempting to fill a non-zero length buffer with a zero length buffer triggers a thrown exception.  
v10.0.0 | Specifying an invalid string for `value` triggers a thrown exception.  
v5.7.0 | The `encoding` parameter is supported now.  
v0.5.0 | Added in: v0.5.0  
  
  * `value` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The value with which to fill `buf`. Empty value (string, Uint8Array, Buffer) is coerced to `0`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to fill `buf`. **Default:** `0`.
  * `end` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Where to stop filling `buf` (not inclusive). **Default:** `buf.length`.
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding for `value` if `value` is a string. **Default:** `'utf8'`.
  * Returns: <Buffer> A reference to `buf`.

Fills `buf` with the specified `value`. If the `offset` and `end` are not
given, the entire `buf` will be filled:

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    // Fill a `Buffer` with the ASCII character 'h'.
    
    const b = Buffer.allocUnsafe(50).fill('h');
    
    console.log(b.toString());
    // Prints: hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh
    
    // Fill a buffer with empty string
    const c = Buffer.allocUnsafe(5).fill('');
    
    console.log(c.fill(''));
    // Prints: <Buffer 00 00 00 00 00>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    // Fill a `Buffer` with the ASCII character 'h'.
    
    const b = Buffer.allocUnsafe(50).fill('h');
    
    console.log(b.toString());
    // Prints: hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh
    
    // Fill a buffer with empty string
    const c = Buffer.allocUnsafe(5).fill('');
    
    console.log(c.fill(''));
    // Prints: <Buffer 00 00 00 00 00>copy

`value` is coerced to a `uint32` value if it is not a string, `Buffer`, or
integer. If the resulting integer is greater than `255` (decimal), `buf` will
be filled with `value & 255`.

If the final write of a `fill()` operation falls on a multi-byte character,
then only the bytes of that character that fit into `buf` are written:

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    // Fill a `Buffer` with character that takes up two bytes in UTF-8.
    
    console.log(Buffer.allocUnsafe(5).fill('\u0222'));
    // Prints: <Buffer c8 a2 c8 a2 c8>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    // Fill a `Buffer` with character that takes up two bytes in UTF-8.
    
    console.log(Buffer.allocUnsafe(5).fill('\u0222'));
    // Prints: <Buffer c8 a2 c8 a2 c8>copy

If `value` contains invalid characters, it is truncated; if no valid fill data
remains, an exception is thrown:

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(5);
    
    console.log(buf.fill('a'));
    // Prints: <Buffer 61 61 61 61 61>
    console.log(buf.fill('aazz', 'hex'));
    // Prints: <Buffer aa aa aa aa aa>
    console.log(buf.fill('zz', 'hex'));
    // Throws an exception.const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(5);
    
    console.log(buf.fill('a'));
    // Prints: <Buffer 61 61 61 61 61>
    console.log(buf.fill('aazz', 'hex'));
    // Prints: <Buffer aa aa aa aa aa>
    console.log(buf.fill('zz', 'hex'));
    // Throws an exception.copy

#### `buf.includes(value[, byteOffset][, encoding])`#

Added in: v5.3.0

  * `value` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) What to search for.
  * `byteOffset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Where to begin searching in `buf`. If negative, then offset is calculated from the end of `buf`. **Default:** `0`.
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If `value` is a string, this is its encoding. **Default:** `'utf8'`.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if `value` was found in `buf`, `false` otherwise.

Equivalent to `buf.indexOf() !== -1`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('this is a buffer');
    
    console.log(buf.includes('this'));
    // Prints: true
    console.log(buf.includes('is'));
    // Prints: true
    console.log(buf.includes(Buffer.from('a buffer')));
    // Prints: true
    console.log(buf.includes(97));
    // Prints: true (97 is the decimal ASCII value for 'a')
    console.log(buf.includes(Buffer.from('a buffer example')));
    // Prints: false
    console.log(buf.includes(Buffer.from('a buffer example').slice(0, 8)));
    // Prints: true
    console.log(buf.includes('this', 4));
    // Prints: falseconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('this is a buffer');
    
    console.log(buf.includes('this'));
    // Prints: true
    console.log(buf.includes('is'));
    // Prints: true
    console.log(buf.includes(Buffer.from('a buffer')));
    // Prints: true
    console.log(buf.includes(97));
    // Prints: true (97 is the decimal ASCII value for 'a')
    console.log(buf.includes(Buffer.from('a buffer example')));
    // Prints: false
    console.log(buf.includes(Buffer.from('a buffer example').slice(0, 8)));
    // Prints: true
    console.log(buf.includes('this', 4));
    // Prints: falsecopy

#### `buf.indexOf(value[, byteOffset][, encoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | The `value` can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v5.7.0, v4.4.0 | When `encoding` is being passed, the `byteOffset` parameter is no longer required.  
v1.5.0 | Added in: v1.5.0  
  
  * `value` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) What to search for.
  * `byteOffset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Where to begin searching in `buf`. If negative, then offset is calculated from the end of `buf`. **Default:** `0`.
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If `value` is a string, this is the encoding used to determine the binary representation of the string that will be searched for in `buf`. **Default:** `'utf8'`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The index of the first occurrence of `value` in `buf`, or `-1` if `buf` does not contain `value`.

If `value` is:

  * a string, `value` is interpreted according to the character encoding in `encoding`.
  * a `Buffer` or [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array), `value` will be used in its entirety. To compare a partial `Buffer`, use `buf.subarray`.
  * a number, `value` will be interpreted as an unsigned 8-bit integer value between `0` and `255`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('this is a buffer');
    
    console.log(buf.indexOf('this'));
    // Prints: 0
    console.log(buf.indexOf('is'));
    // Prints: 2
    console.log(buf.indexOf(Buffer.from('a buffer')));
    // Prints: 8
    console.log(buf.indexOf(97));
    // Prints: 8 (97 is the decimal ASCII value for 'a')
    console.log(buf.indexOf(Buffer.from('a buffer example')));
    // Prints: -1
    console.log(buf.indexOf(Buffer.from('a buffer example').slice(0, 8)));
    // Prints: 8
    
    const utf16Buffer = Buffer.from('\u039a\u0391\u03a3\u03a3\u0395', 'utf16le');
    
    console.log(utf16Buffer.indexOf('\u03a3', 0, 'utf16le'));
    // Prints: 4
    console.log(utf16Buffer.indexOf('\u03a3', -4, 'utf16le'));
    // Prints: 6const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('this is a buffer');
    
    console.log(buf.indexOf('this'));
    // Prints: 0
    console.log(buf.indexOf('is'));
    // Prints: 2
    console.log(buf.indexOf(Buffer.from('a buffer')));
    // Prints: 8
    console.log(buf.indexOf(97));
    // Prints: 8 (97 is the decimal ASCII value for 'a')
    console.log(buf.indexOf(Buffer.from('a buffer example')));
    // Prints: -1
    console.log(buf.indexOf(Buffer.from('a buffer example').slice(0, 8)));
    // Prints: 8
    
    const utf16Buffer = Buffer.from('\u039a\u0391\u03a3\u03a3\u0395', 'utf16le');
    
    console.log(utf16Buffer.indexOf('\u03a3', 0, 'utf16le'));
    // Prints: 4
    console.log(utf16Buffer.indexOf('\u03a3', -4, 'utf16le'));
    // Prints: 6copy

If `value` is not a string, number, or `Buffer`, this method will throw a
`TypeError`. If `value` is a number, it will be coerced to a valid byte value,
an integer between 0 and 255.

If `byteOffset` is not a number, it will be coerced to a number. If the result
of coercion is `NaN` or `0`, then the entire buffer will be searched. This
behavior matches
[`String.prototype.indexOf()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/indexOf).

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const b = Buffer.from('abcdef');
    
    // Passing a value that's a number, but not a valid byte.
    // Prints: 2, equivalent to searching for 99 or 'c'.
    console.log(b.indexOf(99.9));
    console.log(b.indexOf(256 + 99));
    
    // Passing a byteOffset that coerces to NaN or 0.
    // Prints: 1, searching the whole buffer.
    console.log(b.indexOf('b', undefined));
    console.log(b.indexOf('b', {}));
    console.log(b.indexOf('b', null));
    console.log(b.indexOf('b', []));const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const b = Buffer.from('abcdef');
    
    // Passing a value that's a number, but not a valid byte.
    // Prints: 2, equivalent to searching for 99 or 'c'.
    console.log(b.indexOf(99.9));
    console.log(b.indexOf(256 + 99));
    
    // Passing a byteOffset that coerces to NaN or 0.
    // Prints: 1, searching the whole buffer.
    console.log(b.indexOf('b', undefined));
    console.log(b.indexOf('b', {}));
    console.log(b.indexOf('b', null));
    console.log(b.indexOf('b', []));copy

If `value` is an empty string or empty `Buffer` and `byteOffset` is less than
`buf.length`, `byteOffset` will be returned. If `value` is empty and
`byteOffset` is at least `buf.length`, `buf.length` will be returned.

#### `buf.keys()`#

Added in: v1.1.0

  * Returns: [<Iterator>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterator_protocol)

Creates and returns an [iterator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols) of `buf` keys (indexes).

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('buffer');
    
    for (const key of buf.keys()) {
      console.log(key);
    }
    // Prints:
    //   0
    //   1
    //   2
    //   3
    //   4
    //   5const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('buffer');
    
    for (const key of buf.keys()) {
      console.log(key);
    }
    // Prints:
    //   0
    //   1
    //   2
    //   3
    //   4
    //   5copy

#### `buf.lastIndexOf(value[, byteOffset][, encoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | The `value` can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v6.0.0 | Added in: v6.0.0  
  
  * `value` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) What to search for.
  * `byteOffset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Where to begin searching in `buf`. If negative, then offset is calculated from the end of `buf`. **Default:** `buf.length - 1`.
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If `value` is a string, this is the encoding used to determine the binary representation of the string that will be searched for in `buf`. **Default:** `'utf8'`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The index of the last occurrence of `value` in `buf`, or `-1` if `buf` does not contain `value`.

Identical to `buf.indexOf()`, except the last occurrence of `value` is found
rather than the first occurrence.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('this buffer is a buffer');
    
    console.log(buf.lastIndexOf('this'));
    // Prints: 0
    console.log(buf.lastIndexOf('buffer'));
    // Prints: 17
    console.log(buf.lastIndexOf(Buffer.from('buffer')));
    // Prints: 17
    console.log(buf.lastIndexOf(97));
    // Prints: 15 (97 is the decimal ASCII value for 'a')
    console.log(buf.lastIndexOf(Buffer.from('yolo')));
    // Prints: -1
    console.log(buf.lastIndexOf('buffer', 5));
    // Prints: 5
    console.log(buf.lastIndexOf('buffer', 4));
    // Prints: -1
    
    const utf16Buffer = Buffer.from('\u039a\u0391\u03a3\u03a3\u0395', 'utf16le');
    
    console.log(utf16Buffer.lastIndexOf('\u03a3', undefined, 'utf16le'));
    // Prints: 6
    console.log(utf16Buffer.lastIndexOf('\u03a3', -5, 'utf16le'));
    // Prints: 4const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('this buffer is a buffer');
    
    console.log(buf.lastIndexOf('this'));
    // Prints: 0
    console.log(buf.lastIndexOf('buffer'));
    // Prints: 17
    console.log(buf.lastIndexOf(Buffer.from('buffer')));
    // Prints: 17
    console.log(buf.lastIndexOf(97));
    // Prints: 15 (97 is the decimal ASCII value for 'a')
    console.log(buf.lastIndexOf(Buffer.from('yolo')));
    // Prints: -1
    console.log(buf.lastIndexOf('buffer', 5));
    // Prints: 5
    console.log(buf.lastIndexOf('buffer', 4));
    // Prints: -1
    
    const utf16Buffer = Buffer.from('\u039a\u0391\u03a3\u03a3\u0395', 'utf16le');
    
    console.log(utf16Buffer.lastIndexOf('\u03a3', undefined, 'utf16le'));
    // Prints: 6
    console.log(utf16Buffer.lastIndexOf('\u03a3', -5, 'utf16le'));
    // Prints: 4copy

If `value` is not a string, number, or `Buffer`, this method will throw a
`TypeError`. If `value` is a number, it will be coerced to a valid byte value,
an integer between 0 and 255.

If `byteOffset` is not a number, it will be coerced to a number. Any arguments
that coerce to `NaN`, like `{}` or `undefined`, will search the whole buffer.
This behavior matches
[`String.prototype.lastIndexOf()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/lastIndexOf).

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const b = Buffer.from('abcdef');
    
    // Passing a value that's a number, but not a valid byte.
    // Prints: 2, equivalent to searching for 99 or 'c'.
    console.log(b.lastIndexOf(99.9));
    console.log(b.lastIndexOf(256 + 99));
    
    // Passing a byteOffset that coerces to NaN.
    // Prints: 1, searching the whole buffer.
    console.log(b.lastIndexOf('b', undefined));
    console.log(b.lastIndexOf('b', {}));
    
    // Passing a byteOffset that coerces to 0.
    // Prints: -1, equivalent to passing 0.
    console.log(b.lastIndexOf('b', null));
    console.log(b.lastIndexOf('b', []));const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const b = Buffer.from('abcdef');
    
    // Passing a value that's a number, but not a valid byte.
    // Prints: 2, equivalent to searching for 99 or 'c'.
    console.log(b.lastIndexOf(99.9));
    console.log(b.lastIndexOf(256 + 99));
    
    // Passing a byteOffset that coerces to NaN.
    // Prints: 1, searching the whole buffer.
    console.log(b.lastIndexOf('b', undefined));
    console.log(b.lastIndexOf('b', {}));
    
    // Passing a byteOffset that coerces to 0.
    // Prints: -1, equivalent to passing 0.
    console.log(b.lastIndexOf('b', null));
    console.log(b.lastIndexOf('b', []));copy

If `value` is an empty string or empty `Buffer`, `byteOffset` will be
returned.

#### `buf.length`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the number of bytes in `buf`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    // Create a `Buffer` and write a shorter string to it using UTF-8.
    
    const buf = Buffer.alloc(1234);
    
    console.log(buf.length);
    // Prints: 1234
    
    buf.write('some string', 0, 'utf8');
    
    console.log(buf.length);
    // Prints: 1234const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    // Create a `Buffer` and write a shorter string to it using UTF-8.
    
    const buf = Buffer.alloc(1234);
    
    console.log(buf.length);
    // Prints: 1234
    
    buf.write('some string', 0, 'utf8');
    
    console.log(buf.length);
    // Prints: 1234copy

#### `buf.parent`#

Deprecated since: v8.0.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `buf.buffer` instead.

The `buf.parent` property is a deprecated alias for `buf.buffer`.

#### `buf.readBigInt64BE([offset])`#

Added in: v12.0.0, v10.20.0

  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy: `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 8`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Reads a signed, big-endian 64-bit integer from `buf` at the specified
`offset`.

Integers read from a `Buffer` are interpreted as two's complement signed
values.

#### `buf.readBigInt64LE([offset])`#

Added in: v12.0.0, v10.20.0

  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy: `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 8`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Reads a signed, little-endian 64-bit integer from `buf` at the specified
`offset`.

Integers read from a `Buffer` are interpreted as two's complement signed
values.

#### `buf.readBigUInt64BE([offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.10.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.readBigUint64BE()`.  
v12.0.0, v10.20.0 | Added in: v12.0.0, v10.20.0  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy: `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 8`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Reads an unsigned, big-endian 64-bit integer from `buf` at the specified
`offset`.

This function is also available under the `readBigUint64BE` alias.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0xff, 0xff, 0xff]);
    
    console.log(buf.readBigUInt64BE(0));
    // Prints: 4294967295nconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0xff, 0xff, 0xff]);
    
    console.log(buf.readBigUInt64BE(0));
    // Prints: 4294967295ncopy

#### `buf.readBigUInt64LE([offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.10.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.readBigUint64LE()`.  
v12.0.0, v10.20.0 | Added in: v12.0.0, v10.20.0  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy: `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 8`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Reads an unsigned, little-endian 64-bit integer from `buf` at the specified
`offset`.

This function is also available under the `readBigUint64LE` alias.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0xff, 0xff, 0xff]);
    
    console.log(buf.readBigUInt64LE(0));
    // Prints: 18446744069414584320nconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0xff, 0xff, 0xff, 0xff]);
    
    console.log(buf.readBigUInt64LE(0));
    // Prints: 18446744069414584320ncopy

#### `buf.readDoubleBE([offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 8`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads a 64-bit, big-endian double from `buf` at the specified `offset`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8]);
    
    console.log(buf.readDoubleBE(0));
    // Prints: 8.20788039913184e-304const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8]);
    
    console.log(buf.readDoubleBE(0));
    // Prints: 8.20788039913184e-304copy

#### `buf.readDoubleLE([offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 8`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads a 64-bit, little-endian double from `buf` at the specified `offset`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8]);
    
    console.log(buf.readDoubleLE(0));
    // Prints: 5.447603722011605e-270
    console.log(buf.readDoubleLE(1));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8]);
    
    console.log(buf.readDoubleLE(0));
    // Prints: 5.447603722011605e-270
    console.log(buf.readDoubleLE(1));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.copy

#### `buf.readFloatBE([offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 4`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads a 32-bit, big-endian float from `buf` at the specified `offset`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([1, 2, 3, 4]);
    
    console.log(buf.readFloatBE(0));
    // Prints: 2.387939260590663e-38const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([1, 2, 3, 4]);
    
    console.log(buf.readFloatBE(0));
    // Prints: 2.387939260590663e-38copy

#### `buf.readFloatLE([offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 4`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads a 32-bit, little-endian float from `buf` at the specified `offset`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([1, 2, 3, 4]);
    
    console.log(buf.readFloatLE(0));
    // Prints: 1.539989614439558e-36
    console.log(buf.readFloatLE(1));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([1, 2, 3, 4]);
    
    console.log(buf.readFloatLE(0));
    // Prints: 1.539989614439558e-36
    console.log(buf.readFloatLE(1));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.copy

#### `buf.readInt8([offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.0 | Added in: v0.5.0  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 1`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads a signed 8-bit integer from `buf` at the specified `offset`.

Integers read from a `Buffer` are interpreted as two's complement signed
values.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([-1, 5]);
    
    console.log(buf.readInt8(0));
    // Prints: -1
    console.log(buf.readInt8(1));
    // Prints: 5
    console.log(buf.readInt8(2));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([-1, 5]);
    
    console.log(buf.readInt8(0));
    // Prints: -1
    console.log(buf.readInt8(1));
    // Prints: 5
    console.log(buf.readInt8(2));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.copy

#### `buf.readInt16BE([offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 2`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads a signed, big-endian 16-bit integer from `buf` at the specified
`offset`.

Integers read from a `Buffer` are interpreted as two's complement signed
values.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0, 5]);
    
    console.log(buf.readInt16BE(0));
    // Prints: 5const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0, 5]);
    
    console.log(buf.readInt16BE(0));
    // Prints: 5copy

#### `buf.readInt16LE([offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 2`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads a signed, little-endian 16-bit integer from `buf` at the specified
`offset`.

Integers read from a `Buffer` are interpreted as two's complement signed
values.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0, 5]);
    
    console.log(buf.readInt16LE(0));
    // Prints: 1280
    console.log(buf.readInt16LE(1));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0, 5]);
    
    console.log(buf.readInt16LE(0));
    // Prints: 1280
    console.log(buf.readInt16LE(1));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.copy

#### `buf.readInt32BE([offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 4`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads a signed, big-endian 32-bit integer from `buf` at the specified
`offset`.

Integers read from a `Buffer` are interpreted as two's complement signed
values.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0, 0, 0, 5]);
    
    console.log(buf.readInt32BE(0));
    // Prints: 5const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0, 0, 0, 5]);
    
    console.log(buf.readInt32BE(0));
    // Prints: 5copy

#### `buf.readInt32LE([offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 4`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads a signed, little-endian 32-bit integer from `buf` at the specified
`offset`.

Integers read from a `Buffer` are interpreted as two's complement signed
values.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0, 0, 0, 5]);
    
    console.log(buf.readInt32LE(0));
    // Prints: 83886080
    console.log(buf.readInt32LE(1));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0, 0, 0, 5]);
    
    console.log(buf.readInt32LE(0));
    // Prints: 83886080
    console.log(buf.readInt32LE(1));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.copy

#### `buf.readIntBE(offset, byteLength)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset and `byteLength` to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - byteLength`.
  * `byteLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to read. Must satisfy `0 < byteLength <= 6`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads `byteLength` number of bytes from `buf` at the specified `offset` and
interprets the result as a big-endian, two's complement signed value
supporting up to 48 bits of accuracy.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x12, 0x34, 0x56, 0x78, 0x90, 0xab]);
    
    console.log(buf.readIntBE(0, 6).toString(16));
    // Prints: 1234567890ab
    console.log(buf.readIntBE(1, 6).toString(16));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.
    console.log(buf.readIntBE(1, 0).toString(16));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x12, 0x34, 0x56, 0x78, 0x90, 0xab]);
    
    console.log(buf.readIntBE(0, 6).toString(16));
    // Prints: 1234567890ab
    console.log(buf.readIntBE(1, 6).toString(16));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.
    console.log(buf.readIntBE(1, 0).toString(16));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.copy

#### `buf.readIntLE(offset, byteLength)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset and `byteLength` to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - byteLength`.
  * `byteLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to read. Must satisfy `0 < byteLength <= 6`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads `byteLength` number of bytes from `buf` at the specified `offset` and
interprets the result as a little-endian, two's complement signed value
supporting up to 48 bits of accuracy.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x12, 0x34, 0x56, 0x78, 0x90, 0xab]);
    
    console.log(buf.readIntLE(0, 6).toString(16));
    // Prints: -546f87a9cbeeconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x12, 0x34, 0x56, 0x78, 0x90, 0xab]);
    
    console.log(buf.readIntLE(0, 6).toString(16));
    // Prints: -546f87a9cbeecopy

#### `buf.readUInt8([offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.9.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.readUint8()`.  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.0 | Added in: v0.5.0  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 1`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads an unsigned 8-bit integer from `buf` at the specified `offset`.

This function is also available under the `readUint8` alias.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([1, -2]);
    
    console.log(buf.readUInt8(0));
    // Prints: 1
    console.log(buf.readUInt8(1));
    // Prints: 254
    console.log(buf.readUInt8(2));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([1, -2]);
    
    console.log(buf.readUInt8(0));
    // Prints: 1
    console.log(buf.readUInt8(1));
    // Prints: 254
    console.log(buf.readUInt8(2));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.copy

#### `buf.readUInt16BE([offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.9.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.readUint16BE()`.  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 2`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads an unsigned, big-endian 16-bit integer from `buf` at the specified
`offset`.

This function is also available under the `readUint16BE` alias.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x12, 0x34, 0x56]);
    
    console.log(buf.readUInt16BE(0).toString(16));
    // Prints: 1234
    console.log(buf.readUInt16BE(1).toString(16));
    // Prints: 3456const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x12, 0x34, 0x56]);
    
    console.log(buf.readUInt16BE(0).toString(16));
    // Prints: 1234
    console.log(buf.readUInt16BE(1).toString(16));
    // Prints: 3456copy

#### `buf.readUInt16LE([offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.9.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.readUint16LE()`.  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 2`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads an unsigned, little-endian 16-bit integer from `buf` at the specified
`offset`.

This function is also available under the `readUint16LE` alias.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x12, 0x34, 0x56]);
    
    console.log(buf.readUInt16LE(0).toString(16));
    // Prints: 3412
    console.log(buf.readUInt16LE(1).toString(16));
    // Prints: 5634
    console.log(buf.readUInt16LE(2).toString(16));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x12, 0x34, 0x56]);
    
    console.log(buf.readUInt16LE(0).toString(16));
    // Prints: 3412
    console.log(buf.readUInt16LE(1).toString(16));
    // Prints: 5634
    console.log(buf.readUInt16LE(2).toString(16));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.copy

#### `buf.readUInt32BE([offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.9.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.readUint32BE()`.  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 4`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads an unsigned, big-endian 32-bit integer from `buf` at the specified
`offset`.

This function is also available under the `readUint32BE` alias.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x12, 0x34, 0x56, 0x78]);
    
    console.log(buf.readUInt32BE(0).toString(16));
    // Prints: 12345678const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x12, 0x34, 0x56, 0x78]);
    
    console.log(buf.readUInt32BE(0).toString(16));
    // Prints: 12345678copy

#### `buf.readUInt32LE([offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.9.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.readUint32LE()`.  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 4`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads an unsigned, little-endian 32-bit integer from `buf` at the specified
`offset`.

This function is also available under the `readUint32LE` alias.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x12, 0x34, 0x56, 0x78]);
    
    console.log(buf.readUInt32LE(0).toString(16));
    // Prints: 78563412
    console.log(buf.readUInt32LE(1).toString(16));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x12, 0x34, 0x56, 0x78]);
    
    console.log(buf.readUInt32LE(0).toString(16));
    // Prints: 78563412
    console.log(buf.readUInt32LE(1).toString(16));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.copy

#### `buf.readUIntBE(offset, byteLength)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.9.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.readUintBE()`.  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset and `byteLength` to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - byteLength`.
  * `byteLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to read. Must satisfy `0 < byteLength <= 6`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads `byteLength` number of bytes from `buf` at the specified `offset` and
interprets the result as an unsigned big-endian integer supporting up to 48
bits of accuracy.

This function is also available under the `readUintBE` alias.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x12, 0x34, 0x56, 0x78, 0x90, 0xab]);
    
    console.log(buf.readUIntBE(0, 6).toString(16));
    // Prints: 1234567890ab
    console.log(buf.readUIntBE(1, 6).toString(16));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x12, 0x34, 0x56, 0x78, 0x90, 0xab]);
    
    console.log(buf.readUIntBE(0, 6).toString(16));
    // Prints: 1234567890ab
    console.log(buf.readUIntBE(1, 6).toString(16));
    // Throws ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE.copy

#### `buf.readUIntLE(offset, byteLength)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.9.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.readUintLE()`.  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset and `byteLength` to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to read. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - byteLength`.
  * `byteLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to read. Must satisfy `0 < byteLength <= 6`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads `byteLength` number of bytes from `buf` at the specified `offset` and
interprets the result as an unsigned, little-endian integer supporting up to
48 bits of accuracy.

This function is also available under the `readUintLE` alias.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x12, 0x34, 0x56, 0x78, 0x90, 0xab]);
    
    console.log(buf.readUIntLE(0, 6).toString(16));
    // Prints: ab9078563412const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x12, 0x34, 0x56, 0x78, 0x90, 0xab]);
    
    console.log(buf.readUIntLE(0, 6).toString(16));
    // Prints: ab9078563412copy

#### `buf.subarray([start[, end]])`#

Added in: v3.0.0

  * `start` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Where the new `Buffer` will start. **Default:** `0`.
  * `end` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Where the new `Buffer` will end (not inclusive). **Default:** `buf.length`.
  * Returns: <Buffer>

Returns a new `Buffer` that references the same memory as the original, but
offset and cropped by the `start` and `end` indexes.

Specifying `end` greater than `buf.length` will return the same result as that
of `end` equal to `buf.length`.

This method is inherited from
[`TypedArray.prototype.subarray()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray/subarray).

Modifying the new `Buffer` slice will modify the memory in the original
`Buffer` because the allocated memory of the two objects overlap.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    // Create a `Buffer` with the ASCII alphabet, take a slice, and modify one byte
    // from the original `Buffer`.
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.allocUnsafe(26);
    
    for (let i = 0; i < 26; i++) {
      // 97 is the decimal ASCII value for 'a'.
      buf1[i] = i + 97;
    }
    
    const buf2 = buf1.subarray(0, 3);
    
    console.log(buf2.toString('ascii', 0, buf2.length));
    // Prints: abc
    
    buf1[0] = 33;
    
    console.log(buf2.toString('ascii', 0, buf2.length));
    // Prints: !bcconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    // Create a `Buffer` with the ASCII alphabet, take a slice, and modify one byte
    // from the original `Buffer`.
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.allocUnsafe(26);
    
    for (let i = 0; i < 26; i++) {
      // 97 is the decimal ASCII value for 'a'.
      buf1[i] = i + 97;
    }
    
    const buf2 = buf1.subarray(0, 3);
    
    console.log(buf2.toString('ascii', 0, buf2.length));
    // Prints: abc
    
    buf1[0] = 33;
    
    console.log(buf2.toString('ascii', 0, buf2.length));
    // Prints: !bccopy

Specifying negative indexes causes the slice to be generated relative to the
end of `buf` rather than the beginning.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('buffer');
    
    console.log(buf.subarray(-6, -1).toString());
    // Prints: buffe
    // (Equivalent to buf.subarray(0, 5).)
    
    console.log(buf.subarray(-6, -2).toString());
    // Prints: buff
    // (Equivalent to buf.subarray(0, 4).)
    
    console.log(buf.subarray(-5, -2).toString());
    // Prints: uff
    // (Equivalent to buf.subarray(1, 4).)const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('buffer');
    
    console.log(buf.subarray(-6, -1).toString());
    // Prints: buffe
    // (Equivalent to buf.subarray(0, 5).)
    
    console.log(buf.subarray(-6, -2).toString());
    // Prints: buff
    // (Equivalent to buf.subarray(0, 4).)
    
    console.log(buf.subarray(-5, -2).toString());
    // Prints: uff
    // (Equivalent to buf.subarray(1, 4).)copy

#### `buf.slice([start[, end]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.5.0, v16.15.0 | The buf.slice() method has been deprecated.  
v7.0.0 | All offsets are now coerced to integers before doing any calculations with them.  
v7.1.0, v6.9.2 | Coercing the offsets to integers now handles values outside the 32-bit integer range properly.  
v0.3.0 | Added in: v0.3.0  
  
  * `start` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Where the new `Buffer` will start. **Default:** `0`.
  * `end` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Where the new `Buffer` will end (not inclusive). **Default:** `buf.length`.
  * Returns: <Buffer>

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `buf.subarray` instead.

Returns a new `Buffer` that references the same memory as the original, but
offset and cropped by the `start` and `end` indexes.

This method is not compatible with the `Uint8Array.prototype.slice()`, which
is a superclass of `Buffer`. To copy the slice, use
`Uint8Array.prototype.slice()`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('buffer');
    
    const copiedBuf = Uint8Array.prototype.slice.call(buf);
    copiedBuf[0]++;
    console.log(copiedBuf.toString());
    // Prints: cuffer
    
    console.log(buf.toString());
    // Prints: buffer
    
    // With buf.slice(), the original buffer is modified.
    const notReallyCopiedBuf = buf.slice();
    notReallyCopiedBuf[0]++;
    console.log(notReallyCopiedBuf.toString());
    // Prints: cuffer
    console.log(buf.toString());
    // Also prints: cuffer (!)const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('buffer');
    
    const copiedBuf = Uint8Array.prototype.slice.call(buf);
    copiedBuf[0]++;
    console.log(copiedBuf.toString());
    // Prints: cuffer
    
    console.log(buf.toString());
    // Prints: buffer
    
    // With buf.slice(), the original buffer is modified.
    const notReallyCopiedBuf = buf.slice();
    notReallyCopiedBuf[0]++;
    console.log(notReallyCopiedBuf.toString());
    // Prints: cuffer
    console.log(buf.toString());
    // Also prints: cuffer (!)copy

#### `buf.swap16()`#

Added in: v5.10.0

  * Returns: <Buffer> A reference to `buf`.

Interprets `buf` as an array of unsigned 16-bit integers and swaps the byte
order _in-place_. Throws `ERR_INVALID_BUFFER_SIZE` if `buf.length` is not a
multiple of 2.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from([0x1, 0x2, 0x3, 0x4, 0x5, 0x6, 0x7, 0x8]);
    
    console.log(buf1);
    // Prints: <Buffer 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08>
    
    buf1.swap16();
    
    console.log(buf1);
    // Prints: <Buffer 02 01 04 03 06 05 08 07>
    
    const buf2 = Buffer.from([0x1, 0x2, 0x3]);
    
    buf2.swap16();
    // Throws ERR_INVALID_BUFFER_SIZE.const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from([0x1, 0x2, 0x3, 0x4, 0x5, 0x6, 0x7, 0x8]);
    
    console.log(buf1);
    // Prints: <Buffer 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08>
    
    buf1.swap16();
    
    console.log(buf1);
    // Prints: <Buffer 02 01 04 03 06 05 08 07>
    
    const buf2 = Buffer.from([0x1, 0x2, 0x3]);
    
    buf2.swap16();
    // Throws ERR_INVALID_BUFFER_SIZE.copy

One convenient use of `buf.swap16()` is to perform a fast in-place conversion
between UTF-16 little-endian and UTF-16 big-endian:

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('This is little-endian UTF-16', 'utf16le');
    buf.swap16(); // Convert to big-endian UTF-16 text.const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('This is little-endian UTF-16', 'utf16le');
    buf.swap16(); // Convert to big-endian UTF-16 text.copy

#### `buf.swap32()`#

Added in: v5.10.0

  * Returns: <Buffer> A reference to `buf`.

Interprets `buf` as an array of unsigned 32-bit integers and swaps the byte
order _in-place_. Throws `ERR_INVALID_BUFFER_SIZE` if `buf.length` is not a
multiple of 4.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from([0x1, 0x2, 0x3, 0x4, 0x5, 0x6, 0x7, 0x8]);
    
    console.log(buf1);
    // Prints: <Buffer 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08>
    
    buf1.swap32();
    
    console.log(buf1);
    // Prints: <Buffer 04 03 02 01 08 07 06 05>
    
    const buf2 = Buffer.from([0x1, 0x2, 0x3]);
    
    buf2.swap32();
    // Throws ERR_INVALID_BUFFER_SIZE.const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from([0x1, 0x2, 0x3, 0x4, 0x5, 0x6, 0x7, 0x8]);
    
    console.log(buf1);
    // Prints: <Buffer 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08>
    
    buf1.swap32();
    
    console.log(buf1);
    // Prints: <Buffer 04 03 02 01 08 07 06 05>
    
    const buf2 = Buffer.from([0x1, 0x2, 0x3]);
    
    buf2.swap32();
    // Throws ERR_INVALID_BUFFER_SIZE.copy

#### `buf.swap64()`#

Added in: v6.3.0

  * Returns: <Buffer> A reference to `buf`.

Interprets `buf` as an array of 64-bit numbers and swaps byte order _in-
place_. Throws `ERR_INVALID_BUFFER_SIZE` if `buf.length` is not a multiple of
8.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from([0x1, 0x2, 0x3, 0x4, 0x5, 0x6, 0x7, 0x8]);
    
    console.log(buf1);
    // Prints: <Buffer 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08>
    
    buf1.swap64();
    
    console.log(buf1);
    // Prints: <Buffer 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01>
    
    const buf2 = Buffer.from([0x1, 0x2, 0x3]);
    
    buf2.swap64();
    // Throws ERR_INVALID_BUFFER_SIZE.const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from([0x1, 0x2, 0x3, 0x4, 0x5, 0x6, 0x7, 0x8]);
    
    console.log(buf1);
    // Prints: <Buffer 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08>
    
    buf1.swap64();
    
    console.log(buf1);
    // Prints: <Buffer 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01>
    
    const buf2 = Buffer.from([0x1, 0x2, 0x3]);
    
    buf2.swap64();
    // Throws ERR_INVALID_BUFFER_SIZE.copy

#### `buf.toJSON()`#

Added in: v0.9.2

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns a JSON representation of `buf`.
[`JSON.stringify()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify) implicitly
calls this function when stringifying a `Buffer` instance.

`Buffer.from()` accepts objects in the format returned from this method. In
particular, `Buffer.from(buf.toJSON())` works like `Buffer.from(buf)`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x1, 0x2, 0x3, 0x4, 0x5]);
    const json = JSON.stringify(buf);
    
    console.log(json);
    // Prints: {"type":"Buffer","data":[1,2,3,4,5]}
    
    const copy = JSON.parse(json, (key, value) => {
      return value && value.type === 'Buffer' ?
        Buffer.from(value) :
        value;
    });
    
    console.log(copy);
    // Prints: <Buffer 01 02 03 04 05>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from([0x1, 0x2, 0x3, 0x4, 0x5]);
    const json = JSON.stringify(buf);
    
    console.log(json);
    // Prints: {"type":"Buffer","data":[1,2,3,4,5]}
    
    const copy = JSON.parse(json, (key, value) => {
      return value && value.type === 'Buffer' ?
        Buffer.from(value) :
        value;
    });
    
    console.log(copy);
    // Prints: <Buffer 01 02 03 04 05>copy

#### `buf.toString([encoding[, start[, end]]])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The character encoding to use. **Default:** `'utf8'`.
  * `start` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The byte offset to start decoding at. **Default:** `0`.
  * `end` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The byte offset to stop decoding at (not inclusive). **Default:** `buf.length`.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Decodes `buf` to a string according to the specified character encoding in
`encoding`. `start` and `end` may be passed to decode only a subset of `buf`.

If `encoding` is `'utf8'` and a byte sequence in the input is not valid UTF-8,
then each invalid byte is replaced with the replacement character `U+FFFD`.

The maximum length of a string instance (in UTF-16 code units) is available as
`buffer.constants.MAX_STRING_LENGTH`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.allocUnsafe(26);
    
    for (let i = 0; i < 26; i++) {
      // 97 is the decimal ASCII value for 'a'.
      buf1[i] = i + 97;
    }
    
    console.log(buf1.toString('utf8'));
    // Prints: abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
    console.log(buf1.toString('utf8', 0, 5));
    // Prints: abcde
    
    const buf2 = Buffer.from('tést');
    
    console.log(buf2.toString('hex'));
    // Prints: 74c3a97374
    console.log(buf2.toString('utf8', 0, 3));
    // Prints: té
    console.log(buf2.toString(undefined, 0, 3));
    // Prints: téconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.allocUnsafe(26);
    
    for (let i = 0; i < 26; i++) {
      // 97 is the decimal ASCII value for 'a'.
      buf1[i] = i + 97;
    }
    
    console.log(buf1.toString('utf8'));
    // Prints: abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
    console.log(buf1.toString('utf8', 0, 5));
    // Prints: abcde
    
    const buf2 = Buffer.from('tést');
    
    console.log(buf2.toString('hex'));
    // Prints: 74c3a97374
    console.log(buf2.toString('utf8', 0, 3));
    // Prints: té
    console.log(buf2.toString(undefined, 0, 3));
    // Prints: técopy

#### `buf.values()`#

Added in: v1.1.0

  * Returns: [<Iterator>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterator_protocol)

Creates and returns an [iterator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols) for `buf` values
(bytes). This function is called automatically when a `Buffer` is used in a
`for..of` statement.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('buffer');
    
    for (const value of buf.values()) {
      console.log(value);
    }
    // Prints:
    //   98
    //   117
    //   102
    //   102
    //   101
    //   114
    
    for (const value of buf) {
      console.log(value);
    }
    // Prints:
    //   98
    //   117
    //   102
    //   102
    //   101
    //   114const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.from('buffer');
    
    for (const value of buf.values()) {
      console.log(value);
    }
    // Prints:
    //   98
    //   117
    //   102
    //   102
    //   101
    //   114
    
    for (const value of buf) {
      console.log(value);
    }
    // Prints:
    //   98
    //   117
    //   102
    //   102
    //   101
    //   114copy

#### `buf.write(string[, offset[, length]][, encoding])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `string` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) String to write to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write `string`. **Default:** `0`.
  * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Maximum number of bytes to write (written bytes will not exceed `buf.length - offset`). **Default:** `buf.length - offset`.
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The character encoding of `string`. **Default:** `'utf8'`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes written.

Writes `string` to `buf` at `offset` according to the character encoding in
`encoding`. The `length` parameter is the number of bytes to write. If `buf`
did not contain enough space to fit the entire string, only part of `string`
will be written. However, partially encoded characters will not be written.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.alloc(256);
    
    const len = buf.write('\u00bd + \u00bc = \u00be', 0);
    
    console.log(`${len} bytes: ${buf.toString('utf8', 0, len)}`);
    // Prints: 12 bytes: ½ + ¼ = ¾
    
    const buffer = Buffer.alloc(10);
    
    const length = buffer.write('abcd', 8);
    
    console.log(`${length} bytes: ${buffer.toString('utf8', 8, 10)}`);
    // Prints: 2 bytes : abconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.alloc(256);
    
    const len = buf.write('\u00bd + \u00bc = \u00be', 0);
    
    console.log(`${len} bytes: ${buf.toString('utf8', 0, len)}`);
    // Prints: 12 bytes: ½ + ¼ = ¾
    
    const buffer = Buffer.alloc(10);
    
    const length = buffer.write('abcd', 8);
    
    console.log(`${length} bytes: ${buffer.toString('utf8', 8, 10)}`);
    // Prints: 2 bytes : abcopy

#### `buf.writeBigInt64BE(value[, offset])`#

Added in: v12.0.0, v10.20.0

  * `value` [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy: `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 8`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as big-endian.

`value` is interpreted and written as a two's complement signed integer.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(8);
    
    buf.writeBigInt64BE(0x0102030405060708n, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(8);
    
    buf.writeBigInt64BE(0x0102030405060708n, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08>copy

#### `buf.writeBigInt64LE(value[, offset])`#

Added in: v12.0.0, v10.20.0

  * `value` [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy: `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 8`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as little-endian.

`value` is interpreted and written as a two's complement signed integer.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(8);
    
    buf.writeBigInt64LE(0x0102030405060708n, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(8);
    
    buf.writeBigInt64LE(0x0102030405060708n, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 08 07 06 05 04 03 02 01>copy

#### `buf.writeBigUInt64BE(value[, offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.10.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.writeBigUint64BE()`.  
v12.0.0, v10.20.0 | Added in: v12.0.0, v10.20.0  
  
  * `value` [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy: `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 8`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as big-endian.

This function is also available under the `writeBigUint64BE` alias.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(8);
    
    buf.writeBigUInt64BE(0xdecafafecacefaden, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer de ca fa fe ca ce fa de>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(8);
    
    buf.writeBigUInt64BE(0xdecafafecacefaden, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer de ca fa fe ca ce fa de>copy

#### `buf.writeBigUInt64LE(value[, offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.10.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.writeBigUint64LE()`.  
v12.0.0, v10.20.0 | Added in: v12.0.0, v10.20.0  
  
  * `value` [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy: `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 8`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as little-endian

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(8);
    
    buf.writeBigUInt64LE(0xdecafafecacefaden, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer de fa ce ca fe fa ca de>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(8);
    
    buf.writeBigUInt64LE(0xdecafafecacefaden, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer de fa ce ca fe fa ca de>copy

This function is also available under the `writeBigUint64LE` alias.

#### `buf.writeDoubleBE(value[, offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `value` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 8`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as big-endian. The `value`
must be a JavaScript number. Behavior is undefined when `value` is anything
other than a JavaScript number.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(8);
    
    buf.writeDoubleBE(123.456, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 40 5e dd 2f 1a 9f be 77>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(8);
    
    buf.writeDoubleBE(123.456, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 40 5e dd 2f 1a 9f be 77>copy

#### `buf.writeDoubleLE(value[, offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `value` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 8`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as little-endian. The
`value` must be a JavaScript number. Behavior is undefined when `value` is
anything other than a JavaScript number.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(8);
    
    buf.writeDoubleLE(123.456, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 77 be 9f 1a 2f dd 5e 40>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(8);
    
    buf.writeDoubleLE(123.456, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 77 be 9f 1a 2f dd 5e 40>copy

#### `buf.writeFloatBE(value[, offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `value` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 4`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as big-endian. Behavior is
undefined when `value` is anything other than a JavaScript number.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeFloatBE(0xcafebabe, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 4f 4a fe bb>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeFloatBE(0xcafebabe, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 4f 4a fe bb>copy

#### `buf.writeFloatLE(value[, offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `value` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 4`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as little-endian. Behavior
is undefined when `value` is anything other than a JavaScript number.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeFloatLE(0xcafebabe, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer bb fe 4a 4f>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeFloatLE(0xcafebabe, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer bb fe 4a 4f>copy

#### `buf.writeInt8(value[, offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.0 | Added in: v0.5.0  
  
  * `value` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 1`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset`. `value` must be a valid
signed 8-bit integer. Behavior is undefined when `value` is anything other
than a signed 8-bit integer.

`value` is interpreted and written as a two's complement signed integer.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(2);
    
    buf.writeInt8(2, 0);
    buf.writeInt8(-2, 1);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 02 fe>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(2);
    
    buf.writeInt8(2, 0);
    buf.writeInt8(-2, 1);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 02 fe>copy

#### `buf.writeInt16BE(value[, offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `value` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 2`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as big-endian. The `value`
must be a valid signed 16-bit integer. Behavior is undefined when `value` is
anything other than a signed 16-bit integer.

The `value` is interpreted and written as a two's complement signed integer.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(2);
    
    buf.writeInt16BE(0x0102, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 01 02>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(2);
    
    buf.writeInt16BE(0x0102, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 01 02>copy

#### `buf.writeInt16LE(value[, offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `value` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 2`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as little-endian. The
`value` must be a valid signed 16-bit integer. Behavior is undefined when
`value` is anything other than a signed 16-bit integer.

The `value` is interpreted and written as a two's complement signed integer.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(2);
    
    buf.writeInt16LE(0x0304, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 04 03>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(2);
    
    buf.writeInt16LE(0x0304, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 04 03>copy

#### `buf.writeInt32BE(value[, offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `value` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 4`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as big-endian. The `value`
must be a valid signed 32-bit integer. Behavior is undefined when `value` is
anything other than a signed 32-bit integer.

The `value` is interpreted and written as a two's complement signed integer.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeInt32BE(0x01020304, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 01 02 03 04>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeInt32BE(0x01020304, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 01 02 03 04>copy

#### `buf.writeInt32LE(value[, offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `value` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 4`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as little-endian. The
`value` must be a valid signed 32-bit integer. Behavior is undefined when
`value` is anything other than a signed 32-bit integer.

The `value` is interpreted and written as a two's complement signed integer.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeInt32LE(0x05060708, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 08 07 06 05>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeInt32LE(0x05060708, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 08 07 06 05>copy

#### `buf.writeIntBE(value, offset, byteLength)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset and `byteLength` to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `value` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - byteLength`.
  * `byteLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to write. Must satisfy `0 < byteLength <= 6`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `byteLength` bytes of `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as
big-endian. Supports up to 48 bits of accuracy. Behavior is undefined when
`value` is anything other than a signed integer.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(6);
    
    buf.writeIntBE(0x1234567890ab, 0, 6);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 12 34 56 78 90 ab>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(6);
    
    buf.writeIntBE(0x1234567890ab, 0, 6);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 12 34 56 78 90 ab>copy

#### `buf.writeIntLE(value, offset, byteLength)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset and `byteLength` to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `value` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - byteLength`.
  * `byteLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to write. Must satisfy `0 < byteLength <= 6`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `byteLength` bytes of `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as
little-endian. Supports up to 48 bits of accuracy. Behavior is undefined when
`value` is anything other than a signed integer.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(6);
    
    buf.writeIntLE(0x1234567890ab, 0, 6);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer ab 90 78 56 34 12>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(6);
    
    buf.writeIntLE(0x1234567890ab, 0, 6);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer ab 90 78 56 34 12>copy

#### `buf.writeUInt8(value[, offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.9.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.writeUint8()`.  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.0 | Added in: v0.5.0  
  
  * `value` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 1`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset`. `value` must be a valid
unsigned 8-bit integer. Behavior is undefined when `value` is anything other
than an unsigned 8-bit integer.

This function is also available under the `writeUint8` alias.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeUInt8(0x3, 0);
    buf.writeUInt8(0x4, 1);
    buf.writeUInt8(0x23, 2);
    buf.writeUInt8(0x42, 3);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 03 04 23 42>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeUInt8(0x3, 0);
    buf.writeUInt8(0x4, 1);
    buf.writeUInt8(0x23, 2);
    buf.writeUInt8(0x42, 3);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 03 04 23 42>copy

#### `buf.writeUInt16BE(value[, offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.9.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.writeUint16BE()`.  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `value` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 2`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as big-endian. The `value`
must be a valid unsigned 16-bit integer. Behavior is undefined when `value` is
anything other than an unsigned 16-bit integer.

This function is also available under the `writeUint16BE` alias.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeUInt16BE(0xdead, 0);
    buf.writeUInt16BE(0xbeef, 2);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer de ad be ef>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeUInt16BE(0xdead, 0);
    buf.writeUInt16BE(0xbeef, 2);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer de ad be ef>copy

#### `buf.writeUInt16LE(value[, offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.9.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.writeUint16LE()`.  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `value` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 2`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as little-endian. The
`value` must be a valid unsigned 16-bit integer. Behavior is undefined when
`value` is anything other than an unsigned 16-bit integer.

This function is also available under the `writeUint16LE` alias.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeUInt16LE(0xdead, 0);
    buf.writeUInt16LE(0xbeef, 2);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer ad de ef be>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeUInt16LE(0xdead, 0);
    buf.writeUInt16LE(0xbeef, 2);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer ad de ef be>copy

#### `buf.writeUInt32BE(value[, offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.9.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.writeUint32BE()`.  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `value` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 4`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as big-endian. The `value`
must be a valid unsigned 32-bit integer. Behavior is undefined when `value` is
anything other than an unsigned 32-bit integer.

This function is also available under the `writeUint32BE` alias.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeUInt32BE(0xfeedface, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer fe ed fa ce>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeUInt32BE(0xfeedface, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer fe ed fa ce>copy

#### `buf.writeUInt32LE(value[, offset])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.9.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.writeUint32LE()`.  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `value` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - 4`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as little-endian. The
`value` must be a valid unsigned 32-bit integer. Behavior is undefined when
`value` is anything other than an unsigned 32-bit integer.

This function is also available under the `writeUint32LE` alias.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeUInt32LE(0xfeedface, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer ce fa ed fe>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(4);
    
    buf.writeUInt32LE(0xfeedface, 0);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer ce fa ed fe>copy

#### `buf.writeUIntBE(value, offset, byteLength)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.9.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.writeUintBE()`.  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset and `byteLength` to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `value` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - byteLength`.
  * `byteLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to write. Must satisfy `0 < byteLength <= 6`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `byteLength` bytes of `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as
big-endian. Supports up to 48 bits of accuracy. Behavior is undefined when
`value` is anything other than an unsigned integer.

This function is also available under the `writeUintBE` alias.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(6);
    
    buf.writeUIntBE(0x1234567890ab, 0, 6);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 12 34 56 78 90 ab>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(6);
    
    buf.writeUIntBE(0x1234567890ab, 0, 6);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer 12 34 56 78 90 ab>copy

#### `buf.writeUIntLE(value, offset, byteLength)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.9.0, v12.19.0 | This function is also available as `buf.writeUintLE()`.  
v10.0.0 | Removed `noAssert` and no implicit coercion of the offset and `byteLength` to `uint32` anymore.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `value` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number to be written to `buf`.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to skip before starting to write. Must satisfy `0 <= offset <= buf.length - byteLength`.
  * `byteLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to write. Must satisfy `0 < byteLength <= 6`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `offset` plus the number of bytes written.

Writes `byteLength` bytes of `value` to `buf` at the specified `offset` as
little-endian. Supports up to 48 bits of accuracy. Behavior is undefined when
`value` is anything other than an unsigned integer.

This function is also available under the `writeUintLE` alias.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(6);
    
    buf.writeUIntLE(0x1234567890ab, 0, 6);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer ab 90 78 56 34 12>const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.allocUnsafe(6);
    
    buf.writeUIntLE(0x1234567890ab, 0, 6);
    
    console.log(buf);
    // Prints: <Buffer ab 90 78 56 34 12>copy

#### `new Buffer(array)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Calling this constructor emits a deprecation warning when run from code outside the `node_modules` directory.  
v7.2.1 | Calling this constructor no longer emits a deprecation warning.  
v7.0.0 | Calling this constructor emits a deprecation warning now.  
v6.0.0 | Deprecated since: v6.0.0  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `Buffer.from(array)` instead.

  * `array` [<integer[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) An array of bytes to copy from.

See `Buffer.from(array)`.

#### `new Buffer(arrayBuffer[, byteOffset[, length]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Calling this constructor emits a deprecation warning when run from code outside the `node_modules` directory.  
v7.2.1 | Calling this constructor no longer emits a deprecation warning.  
v7.0.0 | Calling this constructor emits a deprecation warning now.  
v6.0.0 | The `byteOffset` and `length` parameters are supported now.  
v6.0.0 | Deprecated since: v6.0.0  
v3.0.0 | Added in: v3.0.0  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `Buffer.from(arrayBuffer[, byteOffset[,
length]])` instead.

  * `arrayBuffer` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer) An [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer), [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer) or the `.buffer` property of a [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray).
  * `byteOffset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Index of first byte to expose. **Default:** `0`.
  * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to expose. **Default:** `arrayBuffer.byteLength - byteOffset`.

See `Buffer.from(arrayBuffer[, byteOffset[, length]])`.

#### `new Buffer(buffer)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Calling this constructor emits a deprecation warning when run from code outside the `node_modules` directory.  
v7.2.1 | Calling this constructor no longer emits a deprecation warning.  
v7.0.0 | Calling this constructor emits a deprecation warning now.  
v6.0.0 | Deprecated since: v6.0.0  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `Buffer.from(buffer)` instead.

  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) An existing `Buffer` or [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) from which to copy data.

See `Buffer.from(buffer)`.

#### `new Buffer(size)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Calling this constructor emits a deprecation warning when run from code outside the `node_modules` directory.  
v8.0.0 | The `new Buffer(size)` will return zero-filled memory by default.  
v7.2.1 | Calling this constructor no longer emits a deprecation warning.  
v7.0.0 | Calling this constructor emits a deprecation warning now.  
v6.0.0 | Deprecated since: v6.0.0  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `Buffer.alloc()` instead (also see
`Buffer.allocUnsafe()`).

  * `size` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The desired length of the new `Buffer`.

See `Buffer.alloc()` and `Buffer.allocUnsafe()`. This variant of the
constructor is equivalent to `Buffer.alloc()`.

#### `new Buffer(string[, encoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Calling this constructor emits a deprecation warning when run from code outside the `node_modules` directory.  
v7.2.1 | Calling this constructor no longer emits a deprecation warning.  
v7.0.0 | Calling this constructor emits a deprecation warning now.  
v6.0.0 | Deprecated since: v6.0.0  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `Buffer.from(string[, encoding])` instead.

  * `string` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) String to encode.
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of `string`. **Default:** `'utf8'`.

See `Buffer.from(string[, encoding])`.

### Class: `File`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | Makes File instances cloneable.  
v20.0.0 | No longer experimental.  
v19.2.0, v18.13.0 | Added in: v19.2.0, v18.13.0  
  
  * Extends: <Blob>

A <File> provides information about files.

#### `new buffer.File(sources, fileName[, options])`#

Added in: v19.2.0, v18.13.0

  * `sources` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Blob[]> | <File[]> An array of string, [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer), [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray), [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView), <File>, or <Blob> objects, or any mix of such objects, that will be stored within the `File`.
  * `fileName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The name of the file.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `endings` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) One of either `'transparent'` or `'native'`. When set to `'native'`, line endings in string source parts will be converted to the platform native line-ending as specified by `require('node:os').EOL`.
    * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The File content-type.
    * `lastModified` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The last modified date of the file. **Default:** `Date.now()`.

#### `file.name`#

Added in: v19.2.0, v18.13.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The name of the `File`.

#### `file.lastModified`#

Added in: v19.2.0, v18.13.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The last modified date of the `File`.

### `node:buffer` module APIs#

While, the `Buffer` object is available as a global, there are additional
`Buffer`-related APIs that are available only via the `node:buffer` module
accessed using `require('node:buffer')`.

#### `buffer.atob(data)`#

Added in: v15.13.0, v14.17.0

Stability: 3 \- Legacy. Use `Buffer.from(data, 'base64')` instead.

  * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The Base64-encoded input string.

Decodes a string of Base64-encoded data into bytes, and encodes those bytes
into a string using Latin-1 (ISO-8859-1).

The `data` may be any JavaScript-value that can be coerced into a string.

**This function is only provided for compatibility with legacy web platform
APIs and should never be used in new code, because they use strings to
represent binary data and predate the introduction of typed arrays in
JavaScript. For code running using Node.js APIs, converting between
base64-encoded strings and binary data should be performed
using`Buffer.from(str, 'base64')` and `buf.toString('base64')`.**

#### `buffer.btoa(data)`#

Added in: v15.13.0, v14.17.0

Stability: 3 \- Legacy. Use `buf.toString('base64')` instead.

  * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) An ASCII (Latin1) string.

Decodes a string into bytes using Latin-1 (ISO-8859), and encodes those bytes
into a string using Base64.

The `data` may be any JavaScript-value that can be coerced into a string.

**This function is only provided for compatibility with legacy web platform
APIs and should never be used in new code, because they use strings to
represent binary data and predate the introduction of typed arrays in
JavaScript. For code running using Node.js APIs, converting between
base64-encoded strings and binary data should be performed
using`Buffer.from(str, 'base64')` and `buf.toString('base64')`.**

#### `buffer.isAscii(input)`#

Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0

  * input <Buffer> | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) The input to validate.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

This function returns `true` if `input` contains only valid ASCII-encoded
data, including the case in which `input` is empty.

Throws if the `input` is a detached array buffer.

#### `buffer.isUtf8(input)`#

Added in: v19.4.0, v18.14.0

  * input <Buffer> | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) The input to validate.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

This function returns `true` if `input` contains only valid UTF-8-encoded
data, including the case in which `input` is empty.

Throws if the `input` is a detached array buffer.

#### `buffer.INSPECT_MAX_BYTES`#

Added in: v0.5.4

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `50`

Returns the maximum number of bytes that will be returned when `buf.inspect()`
is called. This can be overridden by user modules. See `util.inspect()` for
more details on `buf.inspect()` behavior.

#### `buffer.kMaxLength`#

Added in: v3.0.0

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The largest size allowed for a single `Buffer` instance.

An alias for `buffer.constants.MAX_LENGTH`.

#### `buffer.kStringMaxLength`#

Added in: v3.0.0

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The largest length allowed for a single `string` instance.

An alias for `buffer.constants.MAX_STRING_LENGTH`.

#### `buffer.resolveObjectURL(id)`#

Added in: v16.7.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `id` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A `'blob:nodedata:...` URL string returned by a prior call to `URL.createObjectURL()`.
  * Returns: <Blob>

Resolves a `'blob:nodedata:...'` an associated <Blob> object registered using
a prior call to `URL.createObjectURL()`.

#### `buffer.transcode(source, fromEnc, toEnc)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | The `source` parameter can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v7.1.0 | Added in: v7.1.0  
  
  * `source` <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) A `Buffer` or `Uint8Array` instance.
  * `fromEnc` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The current encoding.
  * `toEnc` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) To target encoding.
  * Returns: <Buffer>

Re-encodes the given `Buffer` or `Uint8Array` instance from one character
encoding to another. Returns a new `Buffer` instance.

Throws if the `fromEnc` or `toEnc` specify invalid character encodings or if
conversion from `fromEnc` to `toEnc` is not permitted.

Encodings supported by `buffer.transcode()` are: `'ascii'`, `'utf8'`,
`'utf16le'`, `'ucs2'`, `'latin1'`, and `'binary'`.

The transcoding process will use substitution characters if a given byte
sequence cannot be adequately represented in the target encoding. For
instance:

    
    
    import { Buffer, transcode } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const newBuf = transcode(Buffer.from('€'), 'utf8', 'ascii');
    console.log(newBuf.toString('ascii'));
    // Prints: '?'const { Buffer, transcode } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const newBuf = transcode(Buffer.from('€'), 'utf8', 'ascii');
    console.log(newBuf.toString('ascii'));
    // Prints: '?'copy

Because the Euro (`€`) sign is not representable in US-ASCII, it is replaced
with `?` in the transcoded `Buffer`.

#### Class: `SlowBuffer`#

Deprecated since: v6.0.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow()` instead.

See `Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow()`. This was never a class in the sense that the
constructor always returned a `Buffer` instance, rather than a `SlowBuffer`
instance.

##### `new SlowBuffer(size)`#

Deprecated since: v6.0.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow()` instead.

  * `size` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The desired length of the new `SlowBuffer`.

See `Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow()`.

#### Buffer constants#

Added in: v8.2.0

##### `buffer.constants.MAX_LENGTH`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0 | Value is changed to 253 \- 1 on 64-bit architectures.  
v15.0.0 | Value is changed to 232 on 64-bit architectures.  
v14.0.0 | Value is changed from 231 \- 1 to 232 \- 1 on 64-bit architectures.  
v8.2.0 | Added in: v8.2.0  
  
  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The largest size allowed for a single `Buffer` instance.

On 32-bit architectures, this value currently is 230 \- 1 (about 1 GiB).

On 64-bit architectures, this value currently is 253 \- 1 (about 8 PiB).

It reflects
[`v8::TypedArray::kMaxLength`](https://v8.github.io/api/head/classv8_1_1TypedArray.html#a54a48f4373da0850663c4393d843b9b0)
under the hood.

This value is also available as `buffer.kMaxLength`.

##### `buffer.constants.MAX_STRING_LENGTH`#

Added in: v8.2.0

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The largest length allowed for a single `string` instance.

Represents the largest `length` that a `string` primitive can have, counted in
UTF-16 code units.

This value may depend on the JS engine that is being used.

### `Buffer.from()`, `Buffer.alloc()`, and `Buffer.allocUnsafe()`#

In versions of Node.js prior to 6.0.0, `Buffer` instances were created using
the `Buffer` constructor function, which allocates the returned `Buffer`
differently based on what arguments are provided:

  * Passing a number as the first argument to `Buffer()` (e.g. `new Buffer(10)`) allocates a new `Buffer` object of the specified size. Prior to Node.js 8.0.0, the memory allocated for such `Buffer` instances is _not_ initialized and _can contain sensitive data_. Such `Buffer` instances _must_ be subsequently initialized by using either `buf.fill(0)` or by writing to the entire `Buffer` before reading data from the `Buffer`. While this behavior is _intentional_ to improve performance, development experience has demonstrated that a more explicit distinction is required between creating a fast-but-uninitialized `Buffer` versus creating a slower-but-safer `Buffer`. Since Node.js 8.0.0, `Buffer(num)` and `new Buffer(num)` return a `Buffer` with initialized memory.
  * Passing a string, array, or `Buffer` as the first argument copies the passed object's data into the `Buffer`.
  * Passing an [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) or a [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer) returns a `Buffer` that shares allocated memory with the given array buffer.

Because the behavior of `new Buffer()` is different depending on the type of
the first argument, security and reliability issues can be inadvertently
introduced into applications when argument validation or `Buffer`
initialization is not performed.

For example, if an attacker can cause an application to receive a number where
a string is expected, the application may call `new Buffer(100)` instead of
`new Buffer("100")`, leading it to allocate a 100 byte buffer instead of
allocating a 3 byte buffer with content `"100"`. This is commonly possible
using JSON API calls. Since JSON distinguishes between numeric and string
types, it allows injection of numbers where a naively written application that
does not validate its input sufficiently might expect to always receive a
string. Before Node.js 8.0.0, the 100 byte buffer might contain arbitrary pre-
existing in-memory data, so may be used to expose in-memory secrets to a
remote attacker. Since Node.js 8.0.0, exposure of memory cannot occur because
the data is zero-filled. However, other attacks are still possible, such as
causing very large buffers to be allocated by the server, leading to
performance degradation or crashing on memory exhaustion.

To make the creation of `Buffer` instances more reliable and less error-prone,
the various forms of the `new Buffer()` constructor have been **deprecated**
and replaced by separate `Buffer.from()`, `Buffer.alloc()`, and
`Buffer.allocUnsafe()` methods.

_Developers should migrate all existing uses of the`new Buffer()` constructors
to one of these new APIs._

  * `Buffer.from(array)` returns a new `Buffer` that _contains a copy_ of the provided octets.
  * `Buffer.from(arrayBuffer[, byteOffset[, length]])` returns a new `Buffer` that _shares the same allocated memory_ as the given [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer).
  * `Buffer.from(buffer)` returns a new `Buffer` that _contains a copy_ of the contents of the given `Buffer`.
  * `Buffer.from(string[, encoding])` returns a new `Buffer` that _contains a copy_ of the provided string.
  * `Buffer.alloc(size[, fill[, encoding]])` returns a new initialized `Buffer` of the specified size. This method is slower than `Buffer.allocUnsafe(size)` but guarantees that newly created `Buffer` instances never contain old data that is potentially sensitive. A `TypeError` will be thrown if `size` is not a number.
  * `Buffer.allocUnsafe(size)` and `Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow(size)` each return a new uninitialized `Buffer` of the specified `size`. Because the `Buffer` is uninitialized, the allocated segment of memory might contain old data that is potentially sensitive.

`Buffer` instances returned by `Buffer.allocUnsafe()`, `Buffer.from(string)`,
`Buffer.concat()` and `Buffer.from(array)` _may_ be allocated off a shared
internal memory pool if `size` is less than or equal to half
`Buffer.poolSize`. Instances returned by `Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow()` _never_
use the shared internal memory pool.

#### The `--zero-fill-buffers` command-line option#

Added in: v5.10.0

Node.js can be started using the `--zero-fill-buffers` command-line option to
cause all newly-allocated `Buffer` instances to be zero-filled upon creation
by default. Without the option, buffers created with `Buffer.allocUnsafe()`,
`Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow()`, and `new SlowBuffer(size)` are not zero-filled.
Use of this flag can have a measurable negative impact on performance. Use the
`--zero-fill-buffers` option only when necessary to enforce that newly
allocated `Buffer` instances cannot contain old data that is potentially
sensitive.

    
    
    $ node --zero-fill-buffers
    > Buffer.allocUnsafe(5);
    <Buffer 00 00 00 00 00> copy

#### What makes `Buffer.allocUnsafe()` and `Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow()`
"unsafe"?#

When calling `Buffer.allocUnsafe()` and `Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow()`, the
segment of allocated memory is _uninitialized_ (it is not zeroed-out). While
this design makes the allocation of memory quite fast, the allocated segment
of memory might contain old data that is potentially sensitive. Using a
`Buffer` created by `Buffer.allocUnsafe()` without _completely_ overwriting
the memory can allow this old data to be leaked when the `Buffer` memory is
read.

While there are clear performance advantages to using `Buffer.allocUnsafe()`,
extra care _must_ be taken in order to avoid introducing security
vulnerabilities into an application.

## C++ addons#

_Addons_ are dynamically-linked shared objects written in C++. The `require()`
function can load addons as ordinary Node.js modules. Addons provide an
interface between JavaScript and C/C++ libraries.

There are three options for implementing addons:

  * Node-API
  * `nan` ([Native Abstractions for Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/nan))
  * direct use of internal V8, libuv, and Node.js libraries

Unless there is a need for direct access to functionality which is not  
exposed by Node-API, use Node-API. Refer to [C/C++ addons with Node-
API](n-api.html) for more information on Node-API.

When not using Node-API, implementing addons becomes more complex, requiring  
knowledge of multiple components and APIs:

  * [V8](https://v8.dev/): the C++ library Node.js uses to provide the JavaScript implementation. It provides the mechanisms for creating objects, calling functions, etc. The V8's API is documented mostly in the `v8.h` header file (`deps/v8/include/v8.h` in the Node.js source tree), and is also available [online](https://v8docs.nodesource.com/).

  * [libuv](https://github.com/libuv/libuv): The C library that implements the Node.js event loop, its worker threads and all of the asynchronous behaviors of the platform. It also serves as a cross-platform abstraction library, giving easy, POSIX-like access across all major operating systems to many common system tasks, such as interacting with the file system, sockets, timers, and system events. libuv also provides a threading abstraction similar to POSIX threads for more sophisticated asynchronous addons that need to move beyond the standard event loop. Addon authors should avoid blocking the event loop with I/O or other time-intensive tasks by offloading work via libuv to non-blocking system operations, worker threads, or a custom use of libuv threads.

  * Internal Node.js libraries: Node.js itself exports C++ APIs that addons can use, the most important of which is the `node::ObjectWrap` class.

  * Other statically linked libraries (including OpenSSL): These other libraries are located in the `deps/` directory in the Node.js source tree. Only the libuv, OpenSSL, V8, and zlib symbols are purposefully re-exported by Node.js and may be used to various extents by addons. See Linking to libraries included with Node.js for additional information.

All of the following examples are available for
[download](https://github.com/nodejs/node-addon-examples) and may be used as
the starting-point for an addon.

### Hello world#

This "Hello world" example is a simple addon, written in C++, that is the
equivalent of the following JavaScript code:

    
    
    module.exports.hello = () => 'world'; copy

First, create the file `hello.cc`:

    
    
    // hello.cc
    #include <node.h>
    
    namespace demo {
    
    using v8::FunctionCallbackInfo;
    using v8::Isolate;
    using v8::Local;
    using v8::NewStringType;
    using v8::Object;
    using v8::String;
    using v8::Value;
    
    void Method(const FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>& args) {
      Isolate* isolate = args.GetIsolate();
      args.GetReturnValue().Set(String::NewFromUtf8(
          isolate, "world", NewStringType::kNormal).ToLocalChecked());
    }
    
    void Initialize(Local<Object> exports) {
      NODE_SET_METHOD(exports, "hello", Method);
    }
    
    NODE_MODULE(NODE_GYP_MODULE_NAME, Initialize)
    
    }  // namespace demo copy

All Node.js addons must export an initialization function following the
pattern:

    
    
    void Initialize(Local<Object> exports);
    NODE_MODULE(NODE_GYP_MODULE_NAME, Initialize) copy

There is no semi-colon after `NODE_MODULE` as it's not a function (see
`node.h`).

The `module_name` must match the filename of the final binary (excluding the
`.node` suffix).

In the `hello.cc` example, then, the initialization function is `Initialize`
and the addon module name is `addon`.

When building addons with `node-gyp`, using the macro `NODE_GYP_MODULE_NAME`
as the first parameter of `NODE_MODULE()` will ensure that the name of the
final binary will be passed to `NODE_MODULE()`.

Addons defined with `NODE_MODULE()` can not be loaded in multiple contexts or
multiple threads at the same time.

#### Context-aware addons#

There are environments in which Node.js addons may need to be loaded multiple
times in multiple contexts. For example, the
[Electron](https://electronjs.org/) runtime runs multiple instances of Node.js
in a single process. Each instance will have its own `require()` cache, and
thus each instance will need a native addon to behave correctly when loaded
via `require()`. This means that the addon must support multiple
initializations.

A context-aware addon can be constructed by using the macro
`NODE_MODULE_INITIALIZER`, which expands to the name of a function which
Node.js will expect to find when it loads an addon. An addon can thus be
initialized as in the following example:

    
    
    using namespace v8;
    
    extern "C" NODE_MODULE_EXPORT void
    NODE_MODULE_INITIALIZER(Local<Object> exports,
                            Local<Value> module,
                            Local<Context> context) {
      /* Perform addon initialization steps here. */
    } copy

Another option is to use the macro `NODE_MODULE_INIT()`, which will also
construct a context-aware addon. Unlike `NODE_MODULE()`, which is used to
construct an addon around a given addon initializer function,
`NODE_MODULE_INIT()` serves as the declaration of such an initializer to be
followed by a function body.

The following three variables may be used inside the function body following
an invocation of `NODE_MODULE_INIT()`:

  * `Local<Object> exports`,
  * `Local<Value> module`, and
  * `Local<Context> context`

Building a context-aware addon requires careful management of global static
data to ensure stability and correctness. Since the addon may be loaded
multiple times, potentially even from different threads, any global static
data stored in the addon must be properly protected, and must not contain any
persistent references to JavaScript objects. The reason for this is that
JavaScript objects are only valid in one context, and will likely cause a
crash when accessed from the wrong context or from a different thread than the
one on which they were created.

The context-aware addon can be structured to avoid global static data by
performing the following steps:

  * Define a class which will hold per-addon-instance data and which has a static member of the form 
    
        static void DeleteInstance(void* data) {
      // Cast `data` to an instance of the class and delete it.
    } copy

  * Heap-allocate an instance of this class in the addon initializer. This can be accomplished using the `new` keyword.
  * Call `node::AddEnvironmentCleanupHook()`, passing it the above-created instance and a pointer to `DeleteInstance()`. This will ensure the instance is deleted when the environment is torn down.
  * Store the instance of the class in a `v8::External`, and
  * Pass the `v8::External` to all methods exposed to JavaScript by passing it to `v8::FunctionTemplate::New()` or `v8::Function::New()` which creates the native-backed JavaScript functions. The third parameter of `v8::FunctionTemplate::New()` or `v8::Function::New()` accepts the `v8::External` and makes it available in the native callback using the `v8::FunctionCallbackInfo::Data()` method.

This will ensure that the per-addon-instance data reaches each binding that
can be called from JavaScript. The per-addon-instance data must also be passed
into any asynchronous callbacks the addon may create.

The following example illustrates the implementation of a context-aware addon:

    
    
    #include <node.h>
    
    using namespace v8;
    
    class AddonData {
     public:
      explicit AddonData(Isolate* isolate):
          call_count(0) {
        // Ensure this per-addon-instance data is deleted at environment cleanup.
        node::AddEnvironmentCleanupHook(isolate, DeleteInstance, this);
      }
    
      // Per-addon data.
      int call_count;
    
      static void DeleteInstance(void* data) {
        delete static_cast<AddonData*>(data);
      }
    };
    
    static void Method(const v8::FunctionCallbackInfo<v8::Value>& info) {
      // Retrieve the per-addon-instance data.
      AddonData* data =
          reinterpret_cast<AddonData*>(info.Data().As<External>()->Value());
      data->call_count++;
      info.GetReturnValue().Set((double)data->call_count);
    }
    
    // Initialize this addon to be context-aware.
    NODE_MODULE_INIT(/* exports, module, context */) {
      Isolate* isolate = context->GetIsolate();
    
      // Create a new instance of `AddonData` for this instance of the addon and
      // tie its life cycle to that of the Node.js environment.
      AddonData* data = new AddonData(isolate);
    
      // Wrap the data in a `v8::External` so we can pass it to the method we
      // expose.
      Local<External> external = External::New(isolate, data);
    
      // Expose the method `Method` to JavaScript, and make sure it receives the
      // per-addon-instance data we created above by passing `external` as the
      // third parameter to the `FunctionTemplate` constructor.
      exports->Set(context,
                   String::NewFromUtf8(isolate, "method").ToLocalChecked(),
                   FunctionTemplate::New(isolate, Method, external)
                      ->GetFunction(context).ToLocalChecked()).FromJust();
    } copy

##### Worker support#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.8.0, v12.19.0 | Cleanup hooks may now be asynchronous.  
  
In order to be loaded from multiple Node.js environments, such as a main
thread and a Worker thread, an add-on needs to either:

  * Be an Node-API addon, or
  * Be declared as context-aware using `NODE_MODULE_INIT()` as described above

In order to support `Worker` threads, addons need to clean up any resources
they may have allocated when such a thread exits. This can be achieved through
the usage of the `AddEnvironmentCleanupHook()` function:

    
    
    void AddEnvironmentCleanupHook(v8::Isolate* isolate,
                                   void (*fun)(void* arg),
                                   void* arg); copy

This function adds a hook that will run before a given Node.js instance shuts
down. If necessary, such hooks can be removed before they are run using
`RemoveEnvironmentCleanupHook()`, which has the same signature. Callbacks are
run in last-in first-out order.

If necessary, there is an additional pair of `AddEnvironmentCleanupHook()` and
`RemoveEnvironmentCleanupHook()` overloads, where the cleanup hook takes a
callback function. This can be used for shutting down asynchronous resources,
such as any libuv handles registered by the addon.

The following `addon.cc` uses `AddEnvironmentCleanupHook`:

    
    
    // addon.cc
    #include <node.h>
    #include <assert.h>
    #include <stdlib.h>
    
    using node::AddEnvironmentCleanupHook;
    using v8::HandleScope;
    using v8::Isolate;
    using v8::Local;
    using v8::Object;
    
    // Note: In a real-world application, do not rely on static/global data.
    static char cookie[] = "yum yum";
    static int cleanup_cb1_called = 0;
    static int cleanup_cb2_called = 0;
    
    static void cleanup_cb1(void* arg) {
      Isolate* isolate = static_cast<Isolate*>(arg);
      HandleScope scope(isolate);
      Local<Object> obj = Object::New(isolate);
      assert(!obj.IsEmpty());  // assert VM is still alive
      assert(obj->IsObject());
      cleanup_cb1_called++;
    }
    
    static void cleanup_cb2(void* arg) {
      assert(arg == static_cast<void*>(cookie));
      cleanup_cb2_called++;
    }
    
    static void sanity_check(void*) {
      assert(cleanup_cb1_called == 1);
      assert(cleanup_cb2_called == 1);
    }
    
    // Initialize this addon to be context-aware.
    NODE_MODULE_INIT(/* exports, module, context */) {
      Isolate* isolate = context->GetIsolate();
    
      AddEnvironmentCleanupHook(isolate, sanity_check, nullptr);
      AddEnvironmentCleanupHook(isolate, cleanup_cb2, cookie);
      AddEnvironmentCleanupHook(isolate, cleanup_cb1, isolate);
    } copy

Test in JavaScript by running:

    
    
    // test.js
    require('./build/Release/addon'); copy

#### Building#

Once the source code has been written, it must be compiled into the binary
`addon.node` file. To do so, create a file called `binding.gyp` in the top-
level of the project describing the build configuration of the module using a
JSON-like format. This file is used by [node-
gyp](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp), a tool written specifically to
compile Node.js addons.

    
    
    {
      "targets": [
        {
          "target_name": "addon",
          "sources": [ "hello.cc" ]
        }
      ]
    } copy

A version of the `node-gyp` utility is bundled and distributed with Node.js as
part of `npm`. This version is not made directly available for developers to
use and is intended only to support the ability to use the `npm install`
command to compile and install addons. Developers who wish to use `node-gyp`
directly can install it using the command `npm install -g node-gyp`. See the
`node-gyp` [installation instructions](https://github.com/nodejs/node-
gyp#installation) for more information, including platform-specific
requirements.

Once the `binding.gyp` file has been created, use `node-gyp configure` to
generate the appropriate project build files for the current platform. This
will generate either a `Makefile` (on Unix platforms) or a `vcxproj` file (on
Windows) in the `build/` directory.

Next, invoke the `node-gyp build` command to generate the compiled
`addon.node` file. This will be put into the `build/Release/` directory.

When using `npm install` to install a Node.js addon, npm uses its own bundled
version of `node-gyp` to perform this same set of actions, generating a
compiled version of the addon for the user's platform on demand.

Once built, the binary addon can be used from within Node.js by pointing
`require()` to the built `addon.node` module:

    
    
    // hello.js
    const addon = require('./build/Release/addon');
    
    console.log(addon.hello());
    // Prints: 'world' copy

Because the exact path to the compiled addon binary can vary depending on how
it is compiled (i.e. sometimes it may be in `./build/Debug/`), addons can use
the [bindings](https://github.com/TooTallNate/node-bindings) package to load
the compiled module.

While the `bindings` package implementation is more sophisticated in how it
locates addon modules, it is essentially using a `try…catch` pattern similar
to:

    
    
    try {
      return require('./build/Release/addon.node');
    } catch (err) {
      return require('./build/Debug/addon.node');
    } copy

#### Linking to libraries included with Node.js#

Node.js uses statically linked libraries such as V8, libuv, and OpenSSL. All
addons are required to link to V8 and may link to any of the other
dependencies as well. Typically, this is as simple as including the
appropriate `#include <...>` statements (e.g. `#include <v8.h>`) and `node-
gyp` will locate the appropriate headers automatically. However, there are a
few caveats to be aware of:

  * When `node-gyp` runs, it will detect the specific release version of Node.js and download either the full source tarball or just the headers. If the full source is downloaded, addons will have complete access to the full set of Node.js dependencies. However, if only the Node.js headers are downloaded, then only the symbols exported by Node.js will be available.

  * `node-gyp` can be run using the `--nodedir` flag pointing at a local Node.js source image. Using this option, the addon will have access to the full set of dependencies.

#### Loading addons using `require()`#

The filename extension of the compiled addon binary is `.node` (as opposed to
`.dll` or `.so`). The `require()` function is written to look for files with
the `.node` file extension and initialize those as dynamically-linked
libraries.

When calling `require()`, the `.node` extension can usually be omitted and
Node.js will still find and initialize the addon. One caveat, however, is that
Node.js will first attempt to locate and load modules or JavaScript files that
happen to share the same base name. For instance, if there is a file
`addon.js` in the same directory as the binary `addon.node`, then
`require('addon')` will give precedence to the `addon.js` file and load it
instead.

### Native abstractions for Node.js#

Each of the examples illustrated in this document directly use the Node.js and
V8 APIs for implementing addons. The V8 API can, and has, changed dramatically
from one V8 release to the next (and one major Node.js release to the next).
With each change, addons may need to be updated and recompiled in order to
continue functioning. The Node.js release schedule is designed to minimize the
frequency and impact of such changes but there is little that Node.js can do
to ensure stability of the V8 APIs.

The [Native Abstractions for Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/nan) (or
`nan`) provide a set of tools that addon developers are recommended to use to
keep compatibility between past and future releases of V8 and Node.js. See the
`nan` [examples](https://github.com/nodejs/nan/tree/HEAD/examples/) for an
illustration of how it can be used.

### Node-API#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

Node-API is an API for building native addons. It is independent from the
underlying JavaScript runtime (e.g. V8) and is maintained as part of Node.js
itself. This API will be Application Binary Interface (ABI) stable across
versions of Node.js. It is intended to insulate addons from changes in the
underlying JavaScript engine and allow modules compiled for one version to run
on later versions of Node.js without recompilation. Addons are built/packaged
with the same approach/tools outlined in this document (node-gyp, etc.). The
only difference is the set of APIs that are used by the native code. Instead
of using the V8 or [Native Abstractions for
Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/nan) APIs, the functions available in the
Node-API are used.

Creating and maintaining an addon that benefits from the ABI stability
provided by Node-API carries with it certain implementation considerations.

To use Node-API in the above "Hello world" example, replace the content of
`hello.cc` with the following. All other instructions remain the same.

    
    
    // hello.cc using Node-API
    #include <node_api.h>
    
    namespace demo {
    
    napi_value Method(napi_env env, napi_callback_info args) {
      napi_value greeting;
      napi_status status;
    
      status = napi_create_string_utf8(env, "world", NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH, &greeting);
      if (status != napi_ok) return nullptr;
      return greeting;
    }
    
    napi_value init(napi_env env, napi_value exports) {
      napi_status status;
      napi_value fn;
    
      status = napi_create_function(env, nullptr, 0, Method, nullptr, &fn);
      if (status != napi_ok) return nullptr;
    
      status = napi_set_named_property(env, exports, "hello", fn);
      if (status != napi_ok) return nullptr;
      return exports;
    }
    
    NAPI_MODULE(NODE_GYP_MODULE_NAME, init)
    
    }  // namespace demo copy

The functions available and how to use them are documented in [C/C++ addons
with Node-API](n-api.html).

### Addon examples#

Following are some example addons intended to help developers get started. The
examples use the V8 APIs. Refer to the online [V8
reference](https://v8docs.nodesource.com/) for help with the various V8 calls,
and V8's [Embedder's Guide](https://v8.dev/docs/embed) for an explanation of
several concepts used such as handles, scopes, function templates, etc.

Each of these examples using the following `binding.gyp` file:

    
    
    {
      "targets": [
        {
          "target_name": "addon",
          "sources": [ "addon.cc" ]
        }
      ]
    } copy

In cases where there is more than one `.cc` file, simply add the additional
filename to the `sources` array:

    
    
    "sources": ["addon.cc", "myexample.cc"] copy

Once the `binding.gyp` file is ready, the example addons can be configured and
built using `node-gyp`:

    
    
    node-gyp configure build copy

#### Function arguments#

Addons will typically expose objects and functions that can be accessed from
JavaScript running within Node.js. When functions are invoked from JavaScript,
the input arguments and return value must be mapped to and from the C/C++
code.

The following example illustrates how to read function arguments passed from
JavaScript and how to return a result:

    
    
    // addon.cc
    #include <node.h>
    
    namespace demo {
    
    using v8::Exception;
    using v8::FunctionCallbackInfo;
    using v8::Isolate;
    using v8::Local;
    using v8::Number;
    using v8::Object;
    using v8::String;
    using v8::Value;
    
    // This is the implementation of the "add" method
    // Input arguments are passed using the
    // const FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>& args struct
    void Add(const FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>& args) {
      Isolate* isolate = args.GetIsolate();
    
      // Check the number of arguments passed.
      if (args.Length() < 2) {
        // Throw an Error that is passed back to JavaScript
        isolate->ThrowException(Exception::TypeError(
            String::NewFromUtf8(isolate,
                                "Wrong number of arguments").ToLocalChecked()));
        return;
      }
    
      // Check the argument types
      if (!args[0]->IsNumber() || !args[1]->IsNumber()) {
        isolate->ThrowException(Exception::TypeError(
            String::NewFromUtf8(isolate,
                                "Wrong arguments").ToLocalChecked()));
        return;
      }
    
      // Perform the operation
      double value =
          args[0].As<Number>()->Value() + args[1].As<Number>()->Value();
      Local<Number> num = Number::New(isolate, value);
    
      // Set the return value (using the passed in
      // FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>&)
      args.GetReturnValue().Set(num);
    }
    
    void Init(Local<Object> exports) {
      NODE_SET_METHOD(exports, "add", Add);
    }
    
    NODE_MODULE(NODE_GYP_MODULE_NAME, Init)
    
    }  // namespace demo copy

Once compiled, the example addon can be required and used from within Node.js:

    
    
    // test.js
    const addon = require('./build/Release/addon');
    
    console.log('This should be eight:', addon.add(3, 5)); copy

#### Callbacks#

It is common practice within addons to pass JavaScript functions to a C++
function and execute them from there. The following example illustrates how to
invoke such callbacks:

    
    
    // addon.cc
    #include <node.h>
    
    namespace demo {
    
    using v8::Context;
    using v8::Function;
    using v8::FunctionCallbackInfo;
    using v8::Isolate;
    using v8::Local;
    using v8::Null;
    using v8::Object;
    using v8::String;
    using v8::Value;
    
    void RunCallback(const FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>& args) {
      Isolate* isolate = args.GetIsolate();
      Local<Context> context = isolate->GetCurrentContext();
      Local<Function> cb = Local<Function>::Cast(args[0]);
      const unsigned argc = 1;
      Local<Value> argv[argc] = {
          String::NewFromUtf8(isolate,
                              "hello world").ToLocalChecked() };
      cb->Call(context, Null(isolate), argc, argv).ToLocalChecked();
    }
    
    void Init(Local<Object> exports, Local<Object> module) {
      NODE_SET_METHOD(module, "exports", RunCallback);
    }
    
    NODE_MODULE(NODE_GYP_MODULE_NAME, Init)
    
    }  // namespace demo copy

This example uses a two-argument form of `Init()` that receives the full
`module` object as the second argument. This allows the addon to completely
overwrite `exports` with a single function instead of adding the function as a
property of `exports`.

To test it, run the following JavaScript:

    
    
    // test.js
    const addon = require('./build/Release/addon');
    
    addon((msg) => {
      console.log(msg);
    // Prints: 'hello world'
    }); copy

In this example, the callback function is invoked synchronously.

#### Object factory#

Addons can create and return new objects from within a C++ function as
illustrated in the following example. An object is created and returned with a
property `msg` that echoes the string passed to `createObject()`:

    
    
    // addon.cc
    #include <node.h>
    
    namespace demo {
    
    using v8::Context;
    using v8::FunctionCallbackInfo;
    using v8::Isolate;
    using v8::Local;
    using v8::Object;
    using v8::String;
    using v8::Value;
    
    void CreateObject(const FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>& args) {
      Isolate* isolate = args.GetIsolate();
      Local<Context> context = isolate->GetCurrentContext();
    
      Local<Object> obj = Object::New(isolate);
      obj->Set(context,
               String::NewFromUtf8(isolate,
                                   "msg").ToLocalChecked(),
                                   args[0]->ToString(context).ToLocalChecked())
               .FromJust();
    
      args.GetReturnValue().Set(obj);
    }
    
    void Init(Local<Object> exports, Local<Object> module) {
      NODE_SET_METHOD(module, "exports", CreateObject);
    }
    
    NODE_MODULE(NODE_GYP_MODULE_NAME, Init)
    
    }  // namespace demo copy

To test it in JavaScript:

    
    
    // test.js
    const addon = require('./build/Release/addon');
    
    const obj1 = addon('hello');
    const obj2 = addon('world');
    console.log(obj1.msg, obj2.msg);
    // Prints: 'hello world' copy

#### Function factory#

Another common scenario is creating JavaScript functions that wrap C++
functions and returning those back to JavaScript:

    
    
    // addon.cc
    #include <node.h>
    
    namespace demo {
    
    using v8::Context;
    using v8::Function;
    using v8::FunctionCallbackInfo;
    using v8::FunctionTemplate;
    using v8::Isolate;
    using v8::Local;
    using v8::Object;
    using v8::String;
    using v8::Value;
    
    void MyFunction(const FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>& args) {
      Isolate* isolate = args.GetIsolate();
      args.GetReturnValue().Set(String::NewFromUtf8(
          isolate, "hello world").ToLocalChecked());
    }
    
    void CreateFunction(const FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>& args) {
      Isolate* isolate = args.GetIsolate();
    
      Local<Context> context = isolate->GetCurrentContext();
      Local<FunctionTemplate> tpl = FunctionTemplate::New(isolate, MyFunction);
      Local<Function> fn = tpl->GetFunction(context).ToLocalChecked();
    
      // omit this to make it anonymous
      fn->SetName(String::NewFromUtf8(
          isolate, "theFunction").ToLocalChecked());
    
      args.GetReturnValue().Set(fn);
    }
    
    void Init(Local<Object> exports, Local<Object> module) {
      NODE_SET_METHOD(module, "exports", CreateFunction);
    }
    
    NODE_MODULE(NODE_GYP_MODULE_NAME, Init)
    
    }  // namespace demo copy

To test:

    
    
    // test.js
    const addon = require('./build/Release/addon');
    
    const fn = addon();
    console.log(fn());
    // Prints: 'hello world' copy

#### Wrapping C++ objects#

It is also possible to wrap C++ objects/classes in a way that allows new
instances to be created using the JavaScript `new` operator:

    
    
    // addon.cc
    #include <node.h>
    #include "myobject.h"
    
    namespace demo {
    
    using v8::Local;
    using v8::Object;
    
    void InitAll(Local<Object> exports) {
      MyObject::Init(exports);
    }
    
    NODE_MODULE(NODE_GYP_MODULE_NAME, InitAll)
    
    }  // namespace demo copy

Then, in `myobject.h`, the wrapper class inherits from `node::ObjectWrap`:

    
    
    // myobject.h
    #ifndef MYOBJECT_H
    #define MYOBJECT_H
    
    #include <node.h>
    #include <node_object_wrap.h>
    
    namespace demo {
    
    class MyObject : public node::ObjectWrap {
     public:
      static void Init(v8::Local<v8::Object> exports);
    
     private:
      explicit MyObject(double value = 0);
      ~MyObject();
    
      static void New(const v8::FunctionCallbackInfo<v8::Value>& args);
      static void PlusOne(const v8::FunctionCallbackInfo<v8::Value>& args);
    
      double value_;
    };
    
    }  // namespace demo
    
    #endif copy

In `myobject.cc`, implement the various methods that are to be exposed. In the
following code, the method `plusOne()` is exposed by adding it to the
constructor's prototype:

    
    
    // myobject.cc
    #include "myobject.h"
    
    namespace demo {
    
    using v8::Context;
    using v8::Function;
    using v8::FunctionCallbackInfo;
    using v8::FunctionTemplate;
    using v8::Isolate;
    using v8::Local;
    using v8::Number;
    using v8::Object;
    using v8::ObjectTemplate;
    using v8::String;
    using v8::Value;
    
    MyObject::MyObject(double value) : value_(value) {
    }
    
    MyObject::~MyObject() {
    }
    
    void MyObject::Init(Local<Object> exports) {
      Isolate* isolate = exports->GetIsolate();
      Local<Context> context = isolate->GetCurrentContext();
    
      Local<ObjectTemplate> addon_data_tpl = ObjectTemplate::New(isolate);
      addon_data_tpl->SetInternalFieldCount(1);  // 1 field for the MyObject::New()
      Local<Object> addon_data =
          addon_data_tpl->NewInstance(context).ToLocalChecked();
    
      // Prepare constructor template
      Local<FunctionTemplate> tpl = FunctionTemplate::New(isolate, New, addon_data);
      tpl->SetClassName(String::NewFromUtf8(isolate, "MyObject").ToLocalChecked());
      tpl->InstanceTemplate()->SetInternalFieldCount(1);
    
      // Prototype
      NODE_SET_PROTOTYPE_METHOD(tpl, "plusOne", PlusOne);
    
      Local<Function> constructor = tpl->GetFunction(context).ToLocalChecked();
      addon_data->SetInternalField(0, constructor);
      exports->Set(context, String::NewFromUtf8(
          isolate, "MyObject").ToLocalChecked(),
          constructor).FromJust();
    }
    
    void MyObject::New(const FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>& args) {
      Isolate* isolate = args.GetIsolate();
      Local<Context> context = isolate->GetCurrentContext();
    
      if (args.IsConstructCall()) {
        // Invoked as constructor: `new MyObject(...)`
        double value = args[0]->IsUndefined() ?
            0 : args[0]->NumberValue(context).FromMaybe(0);
        MyObject* obj = new MyObject(value);
        obj->Wrap(args.This());
        args.GetReturnValue().Set(args.This());
      } else {
        // Invoked as plain function `MyObject(...)`, turn into construct call.
        const int argc = 1;
        Local<Value> argv[argc] = { args[0] };
        Local<Function> cons =
            args.Data().As<Object>()->GetInternalField(0)
                .As<Value>().As<Function>();
        Local<Object> result =
            cons->NewInstance(context, argc, argv).ToLocalChecked();
        args.GetReturnValue().Set(result);
      }
    }
    
    void MyObject::PlusOne(const FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>& args) {
      Isolate* isolate = args.GetIsolate();
    
      MyObject* obj = ObjectWrap::Unwrap<MyObject>(args.This());
      obj->value_ += 1;
    
      args.GetReturnValue().Set(Number::New(isolate, obj->value_));
    }
    
    }  // namespace demo copy

To build this example, the `myobject.cc` file must be added to the
`binding.gyp`:

    
    
    {
      "targets": [
        {
          "target_name": "addon",
          "sources": [
            "addon.cc",
            "myobject.cc"
          ]
        }
      ]
    } copy

Test it with:

    
    
    // test.js
    const addon = require('./build/Release/addon');
    
    const obj = new addon.MyObject(10);
    console.log(obj.plusOne());
    // Prints: 11
    console.log(obj.plusOne());
    // Prints: 12
    console.log(obj.plusOne());
    // Prints: 13 copy

The destructor for a wrapper object will run when the object is garbage-
collected. For destructor testing, there are command-line flags that can be
used to make it possible to force garbage collection. These flags are provided
by the underlying V8 JavaScript engine. They are subject to change or removal
at any time. They are not documented by Node.js or V8, and they should never
be used outside of testing.

During shutdown of the process or worker threads destructors are not called by
the JS engine. Therefore it's the responsibility of the user to track these
objects and ensure proper destruction to avoid resource leaks.

#### Factory of wrapped objects#

Alternatively, it is possible to use a factory pattern to avoid explicitly
creating object instances using the JavaScript `new` operator:

    
    
    const obj = addon.createObject();
    // instead of:
    // const obj = new addon.Object(); copy

First, the `createObject()` method is implemented in `addon.cc`:

    
    
    // addon.cc
    #include <node.h>
    #include "myobject.h"
    
    namespace demo {
    
    using v8::FunctionCallbackInfo;
    using v8::Isolate;
    using v8::Local;
    using v8::Object;
    using v8::String;
    using v8::Value;
    
    void CreateObject(const FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>& args) {
      MyObject::NewInstance(args);
    }
    
    void InitAll(Local<Object> exports, Local<Object> module) {
      MyObject::Init(exports->GetIsolate());
    
      NODE_SET_METHOD(module, "exports", CreateObject);
    }
    
    NODE_MODULE(NODE_GYP_MODULE_NAME, InitAll)
    
    }  // namespace demo copy

In `myobject.h`, the static method `NewInstance()` is added to handle
instantiating the object. This method takes the place of using `new` in
JavaScript:

    
    
    // myobject.h
    #ifndef MYOBJECT_H
    #define MYOBJECT_H
    
    #include <node.h>
    #include <node_object_wrap.h>
    
    namespace demo {
    
    class MyObject : public node::ObjectWrap {
     public:
      static void Init(v8::Isolate* isolate);
      static void NewInstance(const v8::FunctionCallbackInfo<v8::Value>& args);
    
     private:
      explicit MyObject(double value = 0);
      ~MyObject();
    
      static void New(const v8::FunctionCallbackInfo<v8::Value>& args);
      static void PlusOne(const v8::FunctionCallbackInfo<v8::Value>& args);
      static v8::Global<v8::Function> constructor;
      double value_;
    };
    
    }  // namespace demo
    
    #endif copy

The implementation in `myobject.cc` is similar to the previous example:

    
    
    // myobject.cc
    #include <node.h>
    #include "myobject.h"
    
    namespace demo {
    
    using node::AddEnvironmentCleanupHook;
    using v8::Context;
    using v8::Function;
    using v8::FunctionCallbackInfo;
    using v8::FunctionTemplate;
    using v8::Global;
    using v8::Isolate;
    using v8::Local;
    using v8::Number;
    using v8::Object;
    using v8::String;
    using v8::Value;
    
    // Warning! This is not thread-safe, this addon cannot be used for worker
    // threads.
    Global<Function> MyObject::constructor;
    
    MyObject::MyObject(double value) : value_(value) {
    }
    
    MyObject::~MyObject() {
    }
    
    void MyObject::Init(Isolate* isolate) {
      // Prepare constructor template
      Local<FunctionTemplate> tpl = FunctionTemplate::New(isolate, New);
      tpl->SetClassName(String::NewFromUtf8(isolate, "MyObject").ToLocalChecked());
      tpl->InstanceTemplate()->SetInternalFieldCount(1);
    
      // Prototype
      NODE_SET_PROTOTYPE_METHOD(tpl, "plusOne", PlusOne);
    
      Local<Context> context = isolate->GetCurrentContext();
      constructor.Reset(isolate, tpl->GetFunction(context).ToLocalChecked());
    
      AddEnvironmentCleanupHook(isolate, [](void*) {
        constructor.Reset();
      }, nullptr);
    }
    
    void MyObject::New(const FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>& args) {
      Isolate* isolate = args.GetIsolate();
      Local<Context> context = isolate->GetCurrentContext();
    
      if (args.IsConstructCall()) {
        // Invoked as constructor: `new MyObject(...)`
        double value = args[0]->IsUndefined() ?
            0 : args[0]->NumberValue(context).FromMaybe(0);
        MyObject* obj = new MyObject(value);
        obj->Wrap(args.This());
        args.GetReturnValue().Set(args.This());
      } else {
        // Invoked as plain function `MyObject(...)`, turn into construct call.
        const int argc = 1;
        Local<Value> argv[argc] = { args[0] };
        Local<Function> cons = Local<Function>::New(isolate, constructor);
        Local<Object> instance =
            cons->NewInstance(context, argc, argv).ToLocalChecked();
        args.GetReturnValue().Set(instance);
      }
    }
    
    void MyObject::NewInstance(const FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>& args) {
      Isolate* isolate = args.GetIsolate();
    
      const unsigned argc = 1;
      Local<Value> argv[argc] = { args[0] };
      Local<Function> cons = Local<Function>::New(isolate, constructor);
      Local<Context> context = isolate->GetCurrentContext();
      Local<Object> instance =
          cons->NewInstance(context, argc, argv).ToLocalChecked();
    
      args.GetReturnValue().Set(instance);
    }
    
    void MyObject::PlusOne(const FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>& args) {
      Isolate* isolate = args.GetIsolate();
    
      MyObject* obj = ObjectWrap::Unwrap<MyObject>(args.This());
      obj->value_ += 1;
    
      args.GetReturnValue().Set(Number::New(isolate, obj->value_));
    }
    
    }  // namespace demo copy

Once again, to build this example, the `myobject.cc` file must be added to the
`binding.gyp`:

    
    
    {
      "targets": [
        {
          "target_name": "addon",
          "sources": [
            "addon.cc",
            "myobject.cc"
          ]
        }
      ]
    } copy

Test it with:

    
    
    // test.js
    const createObject = require('./build/Release/addon');
    
    const obj = createObject(10);
    console.log(obj.plusOne());
    // Prints: 11
    console.log(obj.plusOne());
    // Prints: 12
    console.log(obj.plusOne());
    // Prints: 13
    
    const obj2 = createObject(20);
    console.log(obj2.plusOne());
    // Prints: 21
    console.log(obj2.plusOne());
    // Prints: 22
    console.log(obj2.plusOne());
    // Prints: 23 copy

#### Passing wrapped objects around#

In addition to wrapping and returning C++ objects, it is possible to pass
wrapped objects around by unwrapping them with the Node.js helper function
`node::ObjectWrap::Unwrap`. The following examples shows a function `add()`
that can take two `MyObject` objects as input arguments:

    
    
    // addon.cc
    #include <node.h>
    #include <node_object_wrap.h>
    #include "myobject.h"
    
    namespace demo {
    
    using v8::Context;
    using v8::FunctionCallbackInfo;
    using v8::Isolate;
    using v8::Local;
    using v8::Number;
    using v8::Object;
    using v8::String;
    using v8::Value;
    
    void CreateObject(const FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>& args) {
      MyObject::NewInstance(args);
    }
    
    void Add(const FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>& args) {
      Isolate* isolate = args.GetIsolate();
      Local<Context> context = isolate->GetCurrentContext();
    
      MyObject* obj1 = node::ObjectWrap::Unwrap<MyObject>(
          args[0]->ToObject(context).ToLocalChecked());
      MyObject* obj2 = node::ObjectWrap::Unwrap<MyObject>(
          args[1]->ToObject(context).ToLocalChecked());
    
      double sum = obj1->value() + obj2->value();
      args.GetReturnValue().Set(Number::New(isolate, sum));
    }
    
    void InitAll(Local<Object> exports) {
      MyObject::Init(exports->GetIsolate());
    
      NODE_SET_METHOD(exports, "createObject", CreateObject);
      NODE_SET_METHOD(exports, "add", Add);
    }
    
    NODE_MODULE(NODE_GYP_MODULE_NAME, InitAll)
    
    }  // namespace demo copy

In `myobject.h`, a new public method is added to allow access to private
values after unwrapping the object.

    
    
    // myobject.h
    #ifndef MYOBJECT_H
    #define MYOBJECT_H
    
    #include <node.h>
    #include <node_object_wrap.h>
    
    namespace demo {
    
    class MyObject : public node::ObjectWrap {
     public:
      static void Init(v8::Isolate* isolate);
      static void NewInstance(const v8::FunctionCallbackInfo<v8::Value>& args);
      inline double value() const { return value_; }
    
     private:
      explicit MyObject(double value = 0);
      ~MyObject();
    
      static void New(const v8::FunctionCallbackInfo<v8::Value>& args);
      static v8::Global<v8::Function> constructor;
      double value_;
    };
    
    }  // namespace demo
    
    #endif copy

The implementation of `myobject.cc` remains similar to the previous version:

    
    
    // myobject.cc
    #include <node.h>
    #include "myobject.h"
    
    namespace demo {
    
    using node::AddEnvironmentCleanupHook;
    using v8::Context;
    using v8::Function;
    using v8::FunctionCallbackInfo;
    using v8::FunctionTemplate;
    using v8::Global;
    using v8::Isolate;
    using v8::Local;
    using v8::Object;
    using v8::String;
    using v8::Value;
    
    // Warning! This is not thread-safe, this addon cannot be used for worker
    // threads.
    Global<Function> MyObject::constructor;
    
    MyObject::MyObject(double value) : value_(value) {
    }
    
    MyObject::~MyObject() {
    }
    
    void MyObject::Init(Isolate* isolate) {
      // Prepare constructor template
      Local<FunctionTemplate> tpl = FunctionTemplate::New(isolate, New);
      tpl->SetClassName(String::NewFromUtf8(isolate, "MyObject").ToLocalChecked());
      tpl->InstanceTemplate()->SetInternalFieldCount(1);
    
      Local<Context> context = isolate->GetCurrentContext();
      constructor.Reset(isolate, tpl->GetFunction(context).ToLocalChecked());
    
      AddEnvironmentCleanupHook(isolate, [](void*) {
        constructor.Reset();
      }, nullptr);
    }
    
    void MyObject::New(const FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>& args) {
      Isolate* isolate = args.GetIsolate();
      Local<Context> context = isolate->GetCurrentContext();
    
      if (args.IsConstructCall()) {
        // Invoked as constructor: `new MyObject(...)`
        double value = args[0]->IsUndefined() ?
            0 : args[0]->NumberValue(context).FromMaybe(0);
        MyObject* obj = new MyObject(value);
        obj->Wrap(args.This());
        args.GetReturnValue().Set(args.This());
      } else {
        // Invoked as plain function `MyObject(...)`, turn into construct call.
        const int argc = 1;
        Local<Value> argv[argc] = { args[0] };
        Local<Function> cons = Local<Function>::New(isolate, constructor);
        Local<Object> instance =
            cons->NewInstance(context, argc, argv).ToLocalChecked();
        args.GetReturnValue().Set(instance);
      }
    }
    
    void MyObject::NewInstance(const FunctionCallbackInfo<Value>& args) {
      Isolate* isolate = args.GetIsolate();
    
      const unsigned argc = 1;
      Local<Value> argv[argc] = { args[0] };
      Local<Function> cons = Local<Function>::New(isolate, constructor);
      Local<Context> context = isolate->GetCurrentContext();
      Local<Object> instance =
          cons->NewInstance(context, argc, argv).ToLocalChecked();
    
      args.GetReturnValue().Set(instance);
    }
    
    }  // namespace demo copy

Test it with:

    
    
    // test.js
    const addon = require('./build/Release/addon');
    
    const obj1 = addon.createObject(10);
    const obj2 = addon.createObject(20);
    const result = addon.add(obj1, obj2);
    
    console.log(result);
    // Prints: 30 copy

## Node-API#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

Node-API (formerly N-API) is an API for building native Addons. It is
independent from the underlying JavaScript runtime (for example, V8) and is
maintained as part of Node.js itself. This API will be Application Binary
Interface (ABI) stable across versions of Node.js. It is intended to insulate
addons from changes in the underlying JavaScript engine and allow modules
compiled for one major version to run on later major versions of Node.js
without recompilation. The [ABI
Stability](https://nodejs.org/en/docs/guides/abi-stability/) guide provides a
more in-depth explanation.

Addons are built/packaged with the same approach/tools outlined in the section
titled [C++ Addons](addons.html). The only difference is the set of APIs that
are used by the native code. Instead of using the V8 or [Native Abstractions
for Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/nan) APIs, the functions available in
Node-API are used.

APIs exposed by Node-API are generally used to create and manipulate
JavaScript values. Concepts and operations generally map to ideas specified in
the ECMA-262 Language Specification. The APIs have the following properties:

  * All Node-API calls return a status code of type `napi_status`. This status indicates whether the API call succeeded or failed.
  * The API's return value is passed via an out parameter.
  * All JavaScript values are abstracted behind an opaque type named `napi_value`.
  * In case of an error status code, additional information can be obtained using `napi_get_last_error_info`. More information can be found in the error handling section Error handling.

Node-API is a C API that ensures ABI stability across Node.js versions and
different compiler levels. A C++ API can be easier to use. To support using
C++, the project maintains a C++ wrapper module called [`node-addon-
api`](https://github.com/nodejs/node-addon-api). This wrapper provides an
inlinable C++ API. Binaries built with `node-addon-api` will depend on the
symbols for the Node-API C-based functions exported by Node.js. `node-addon-
api` is a more efficient way to write code that calls Node-API. Take, for
example, the following `node-addon-api` code. The first section shows the
`node-addon-api` code and the second section shows what actually gets used in
the addon.

    
    
    Object obj = Object::New(env);
    obj["foo"] = String::New(env, "bar"); copy
    
    
    napi_status status;
    napi_value object, string;
    status = napi_create_object(env, &object);
    if (status != napi_ok) {
      napi_throw_error(env, ...);
      return;
    }
    
    status = napi_create_string_utf8(env, "bar", NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH, &string);
    if (status != napi_ok) {
      napi_throw_error(env, ...);
      return;
    }
    
    status = napi_set_named_property(env, object, "foo", string);
    if (status != napi_ok) {
      napi_throw_error(env, ...);
      return;
    } copy

The end result is that the addon only uses the exported C APIs. As a result,
it still gets the benefits of the ABI stability provided by the C API.

When using `node-addon-api` instead of the C APIs, start with the API
[docs](https://github.com/nodejs/node-addon-api#api-documentation) for `node-
addon-api`.

The [Node-API Resource](https://nodejs.github.io/node-addon-examples/) offers
an excellent orientation and tips for developers just getting started with
Node-API and `node-addon-api`. Additional media resources can be found on the
[Node-API Media](https://github.com/nodejs/abi-stable-node/blob/HEAD/node-api-
media.md) page.

### Implications of ABI stability#

Although Node-API provides an ABI stability guarantee, other parts of Node.js
do not, and any external libraries used from the addon may not. In particular,
none of the following APIs provide an ABI stability guarantee across major
versions:

  * the Node.js C++ APIs available via any of
    
        #include <node.h>
    #include <node_buffer.h>
    #include <node_version.h>
    #include <node_object_wrap.h> copy

  * the libuv APIs which are also included with Node.js and available via
    
        #include <uv.h> copy

  * the V8 API available via
    
        #include <v8.h> copy

Thus, for an addon to remain ABI-compatible across Node.js major versions, it
must use Node-API exclusively by restricting itself to using

    
    
    #include <node_api.h> copy

and by checking, for all external libraries that it uses, that the external
library makes ABI stability guarantees similar to Node-API.

### Building#

Unlike modules written in JavaScript, developing and deploying Node.js native
addons using Node-API requires an additional set of tools. Besides the basic
tools required to develop for Node.js, the native addon developer requires a
toolchain that can compile C and C++ code into a binary. In addition,
depending upon how the native addon is deployed, the _user_ of the native
addon will also need to have a C/C++ toolchain installed.

For Linux developers, the necessary C/C++ toolchain packages are readily
available. [GCC](https://gcc.gnu.org) is widely used in the Node.js community
to build and test across a variety of platforms. For many developers, the
[LLVM](https://llvm.org) compiler infrastructure is also a good choice.

For Mac developers, [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) offers all the
required compiler tools. However, it is not necessary to install the entire
Xcode IDE. The following command installs the necessary toolchain:

    
    
    xcode-select --install copy

For Windows developers, [Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com)
offers all the required compiler tools. However, it is not necessary to
install the entire Visual Studio IDE. The following command installs the
necessary toolchain:

    
    
    npm install --global windows-build-tools copy

The sections below describe the additional tools available for developing and
deploying Node.js native addons.

#### Build tools#

Both the tools listed here require that _users_ of the native addon have a
C/C++ toolchain installed in order to successfully install the native addon.

##### node-gyp#

[node-gyp](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp) is a build system based on the
[gyp-next](https://github.com/nodejs/gyp-next) fork of Google's
[GYP](https://gyp.gsrc.io) tool and comes bundled with npm. GYP, and therefore
node-gyp, requires that Python be installed.

Historically, node-gyp has been the tool of choice for building native addons.
It has widespread adoption and documentation. However, some developers have
run into limitations in node-gyp.

##### CMake.js#

[CMake.js](https://github.com/cmake-js/cmake-js) is an alternative build
system based on [CMake](https://cmake.org).

CMake.js is a good choice for projects that already use CMake or for
developers affected by limitations in node-gyp.
[`build_with_cmake`](https://github.com/nodejs/node-addon-
examples/tree/main/src/8-tooling/build_with_cmake) is an example of a CMake-
based native addon project.

#### Uploading precompiled binaries#

The three tools listed here permit native addon developers and maintainers to
create and upload binaries to public or private servers. These tools are
typically integrated with CI/CD build systems like [Travis CI](https://travis-
ci.org) and [AppVeyor](https://www.appveyor.com) to build and upload binaries
for a variety of platforms and architectures. These binaries are then
available for download by users who do not need to have a C/C++ toolchain
installed.

##### node-pre-gyp#

[node-pre-gyp](https://github.com/mapbox/node-pre-gyp) is a tool based on
node-gyp that adds the ability to upload binaries to a server of the
developer's choice. node-pre-gyp has particularly good support for uploading
binaries to Amazon S3.

##### prebuild#

[prebuild](https://github.com/prebuild/prebuild) is a tool that supports
builds using either node-gyp or CMake.js. Unlike node-pre-gyp which supports a
variety of servers, prebuild uploads binaries only to [GitHub
releases](https://help.github.com/en/github/administering-a-repository/about-
releases). prebuild is a good choice for GitHub projects using CMake.js.

##### prebuildify#

[prebuildify](https://github.com/prebuild/prebuildify) is a tool based on
node-gyp. The advantage of prebuildify is that the built binaries are bundled
with the native addon when it's uploaded to npm. The binaries are downloaded
from npm and are immediately available to the module user when the native
addon is installed.

### Usage#

In order to use the Node-API functions, include the file
[`node_api.h`](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/HEAD/src/node_api.h) which
is located in the src directory in the node development tree:

    
    
    #include <node_api.h> copy

This will opt into the default `NAPI_VERSION` for the given release of
Node.js. In order to ensure compatibility with specific versions of Node-API,
the version can be specified explicitly when including the header:

    
    
    #define NAPI_VERSION 3
    #include <node_api.h> copy

This restricts the Node-API surface to just the functionality that was
available in the specified (and earlier) versions.

Some of the Node-API surface is experimental and requires explicit opt-in:

    
    
    #define NAPI_EXPERIMENTAL
    #include <node_api.h> copy

In this case the entire API surface, including any experimental APIs, will be
available to the module code.

Occasionally, experimental features are introduced that affect already-
released and stable APIs. These features can be disabled by an opt-out:

    
    
    #define NAPI_EXPERIMENTAL
    #define NODE_API_EXPERIMENTAL_<FEATURE_NAME>_OPT_OUT
    #include <node_api.h> copy

where `<FEATURE_NAME>` is the name of an experimental feature that affects
both experimental and stable APIs.

### Node-API version matrix#

Up until version 9, Node-API versions were additive and versioned
independently from Node.js. This meant that any version was an extension to
the previous version in that it had all of the APIs from the previous version
with some additions. Each Node.js version only supported a single Node-API
version. For example v18.15.0 supports only Node-API version 8. ABI stability
was achieved because 8 was a strict superset of all previous versions.

As of version 9, while Node-API versions continue to be versioned
independently an add-on that ran with Node-API version 9 may need code updates
to run with Node-API version 10. ABI stability is maintained, however, because
Node.js versions that support Node-API versions higher than 8 will support all
versions between 8 and the highest version they support and will default to
providing the version 8 APIs unless an add-on opts into a higher Node-API
version. This approach provides the flexibility of better optimizing existing
Node-API functions while maintaining ABI stability. Existing add-ons can
continue to run without recompilation using an earlier version of Node-API. If
an add-on needs functionality from a newer Node-API version, changes to
existing code and recompilation will be needed to use those new functions
anyway.

In versions of Node.js that support Node-API version 9 and later, defining
`NAPI_VERSION=X` and using the existing add-on initialization macros will bake
in the requested Node-API version that will be used at runtime into the add-
on. If `NAPI_VERSION` is not set it will default to 8.

This table may not be up to date in older streams, the most up to date
information is in the latest API documentation in: [Node-API version
matrix](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/n-api.html#node-api-version-matrix)

Node-API version | Supported In  
---|---  
10 | v22.14.0+, 23.6.0+ and all later versions  
9 | v18.17.0+, 20.3.0+, 21.0.0 and all later versions  
8 | v12.22.0+, v14.17.0+, v15.12.0+, 16.0.0 and all later versions  
7 | v10.23.0+, v12.19.0+, v14.12.0+, 15.0.0 and all later versions  
6 | v10.20.0+, v12.17.0+, 14.0.0 and all later versions  
5 | v10.17.0+, v12.11.0+, 13.0.0 and all later versions  
4 | v10.16.0+, v11.8.0+, 12.0.0 and all later versions  
3 | v6.14.2*, 8.11.2+, v9.11.0+*, 10.0.0 and all later versions  
2 | v8.10.0+*, v9.3.0+*, 10.0.0 and all later versions  
1 | v8.6.0+**, v9.0.0+*, 10.0.0 and all later versions  
  
* Node-API was experimental.

** Node.js 8.0.0 included Node-API as experimental. It was released as Node-
API version 1 but continued to evolve until Node.js 8.6.0. The API is
different in versions prior to Node.js 8.6.0. We recommend Node-API version 3
or later.

Each API documented for Node-API will have a header named `added in:`, and
APIs which are stable will have the additional header `Node-API version:`.
APIs are directly usable when using a Node.js version which supports the Node-
API version shown in `Node-API version:` or higher. When using a Node.js
version that does not support the `Node-API version:` listed or if there is no
`Node-API version:` listed, then the API will only be available if `#define
NAPI_EXPERIMENTAL` precedes the inclusion of `node_api.h` or
`js_native_api.h`. If an API appears not to be available on a version of
Node.js which is later than the one shown in `added in:` then this is most
likely the reason for the apparent absence.

The Node-APIs associated strictly with accessing ECMAScript features from
native code can be found separately in `js_native_api.h` and
`js_native_api_types.h`. The APIs defined in these headers are included in
`node_api.h` and `node_api_types.h`. The headers are structured in this way in
order to allow implementations of Node-API outside of Node.js. For those
implementations the Node.js specific APIs may not be applicable.

The Node.js-specific parts of an addon can be separated from the code that
exposes the actual functionality to the JavaScript environment so that the
latter may be used with multiple implementations of Node-API. In the example
below, `addon.c` and `addon.h` refer only to `js_native_api.h`. This ensures
that `addon.c` can be reused to compile against either the Node.js
implementation of Node-API or any implementation of Node-API outside of
Node.js.

`addon_node.c` is a separate file that contains the Node.js specific entry
point to the addon and which instantiates the addon by calling into `addon.c`
when the addon is loaded into a Node.js environment.

    
    
    // addon.h
    #ifndef _ADDON_H_
    #define _ADDON_H_
    #include <js_native_api.h>
    napi_value create_addon(napi_env env);
    #endif  // _ADDON_H_ copy
    
    
    // addon.c
    #include "addon.h"
    
    #define NODE_API_CALL(env, call)                                  \
      do {                                                            \
        napi_status status = (call);                                  \
        if (status != napi_ok) {                                      \
          const napi_extended_error_info* error_info = NULL;          \
          napi_get_last_error_info((env), &error_info);               \
          const char* err_message = error_info->error_message;        \
          bool is_pending;                                            \
          napi_is_exception_pending((env), &is_pending);              \
          /* If an exception is already pending, don't rethrow it */  \
          if (!is_pending) {                                          \
            const char* message = (err_message == NULL)               \
                ? "empty error message"                               \
                : err_message;                                        \
            napi_throw_error((env), NULL, message);                   \
          }                                                           \
          return NULL;                                                \
        }                                                             \
      } while(0)
    
    static napi_value
    DoSomethingUseful(napi_env env, napi_callback_info info) {
      // Do something useful.
      return NULL;
    }
    
    napi_value create_addon(napi_env env) {
      napi_value result;
      NODE_API_CALL(env, napi_create_object(env, &result));
    
      napi_value exported_function;
      NODE_API_CALL(env, napi_create_function(env,
                                              "doSomethingUseful",
                                              NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH,
                                              DoSomethingUseful,
                                              NULL,
                                              &exported_function));
    
      NODE_API_CALL(env, napi_set_named_property(env,
                                                 result,
                                                 "doSomethingUseful",
                                                 exported_function));
    
      return result;
    } copy
    
    
    // addon_node.c
    #include <node_api.h>
    #include "addon.h"
    
    NAPI_MODULE_INIT(/* napi_env env, napi_value exports */) {
      // This function body is expected to return a `napi_value`.
      // The variables `napi_env env` and `napi_value exports` may be used within
      // the body, as they are provided by the definition of `NAPI_MODULE_INIT()`.
      return create_addon(env);
    } copy

### Environment life cycle APIs#

[Section 8.7](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-agents) of the [ECMAScript Language
Specification](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/) defines the concept of an
"Agent" as a self-contained environment in which JavaScript code runs.
Multiple such Agents may be started and terminated either concurrently or in
sequence by the process.

A Node.js environment corresponds to an ECMAScript Agent. In the main process,
an environment is created at startup, and additional environments can be
created on separate threads to serve as [worker
threads](https://nodejs.org/api/worker_threads.html). When Node.js is embedded
in another application, the main thread of the application may also construct
and destroy a Node.js environment multiple times during the life cycle of the
application process such that each Node.js environment created by the
application may, in turn, during its life cycle create and destroy additional
environments as worker threads.

From the perspective of a native addon this means that the bindings it
provides may be called multiple times, from multiple contexts, and even
concurrently from multiple threads.

Native addons may need to allocate global state which they use during their
life cycle of an Node.js environment such that the state can be unique to each
instance of the addon.

To this end, Node-API provides a way to associate data such that its life
cycle is tied to the life cycle of a Node.js environment.

#### `napi_set_instance_data`#

Added in: v12.8.0, v10.20.0 N-API version: 6

    
    
    napi_status napi_set_instance_data(node_api_basic_env env,
                                       void* data,
                                       napi_finalize finalize_cb,
                                       void* finalize_hint); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] data`: The data item to make available to bindings of this instance.
  * `[in] finalize_cb`: The function to call when the environment is being torn down. The function receives `data` so that it might free it. `napi_finalize` provides more details.
  * `[in] finalize_hint`: Optional hint to pass to the finalize callback during collection.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API associates `data` with the currently running Node.js environment.
`data` can later be retrieved using `napi_get_instance_data()`. Any existing
data associated with the currently running Node.js environment which was set
by means of a previous call to `napi_set_instance_data()` will be overwritten.
If a `finalize_cb` was provided by the previous call, it will not be called.

#### `napi_get_instance_data`#

Added in: v12.8.0, v10.20.0 N-API version: 6

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_instance_data(node_api_basic_env env,
                                       void** data); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[out] data`: The data item that was previously associated with the currently running Node.js environment by a call to `napi_set_instance_data()`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API retrieves data that was previously associated with the currently
running Node.js environment via `napi_set_instance_data()`. If no data is set,
the call will succeed and `data` will be set to `NULL`.

### Basic Node-API data types#

Node-API exposes the following fundamental data types as abstractions that are
consumed by the various APIs. These APIs should be treated as opaque,
introspectable only with other Node-API calls.

#### `napi_status`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

Integral status code indicating the success or failure of a Node-API call.
Currently, the following status codes are supported.

    
    
    typedef enum {
      napi_ok,
      napi_invalid_arg,
      napi_object_expected,
      napi_string_expected,
      napi_name_expected,
      napi_function_expected,
      napi_number_expected,
      napi_boolean_expected,
      napi_array_expected,
      napi_generic_failure,
      napi_pending_exception,
      napi_cancelled,
      napi_escape_called_twice,
      napi_handle_scope_mismatch,
      napi_callback_scope_mismatch,
      napi_queue_full,
      napi_closing,
      napi_bigint_expected,
      napi_date_expected,
      napi_arraybuffer_expected,
      napi_detachable_arraybuffer_expected,
      napi_would_deadlock,  /* unused */
      napi_no_external_buffers_allowed,
      napi_cannot_run_js
    } napi_status; copy

If additional information is required upon an API returning a failed status,
it can be obtained by calling `napi_get_last_error_info`.

#### `napi_extended_error_info`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    typedef struct {
      const char* error_message;
      void* engine_reserved;
      uint32_t engine_error_code;
      napi_status error_code;
    } napi_extended_error_info; copy

  * `error_message`: UTF8-encoded string containing a VM-neutral description of the error.
  * `engine_reserved`: Reserved for VM-specific error details. This is currently not implemented for any VM.
  * `engine_error_code`: VM-specific error code. This is currently not implemented for any VM.
  * `error_code`: The Node-API status code that originated with the last error.

See the Error handling section for additional information.

#### `napi_env`#

`napi_env` is used to represent a context that the underlying Node-API
implementation can use to persist VM-specific state. This structure is passed
to native functions when they're invoked, and it must be passed back when
making Node-API calls. Specifically, the same `napi_env` that was passed in
when the initial native function was called must be passed to any subsequent
nested Node-API calls. Caching the `napi_env` for the purpose of general
reuse, and passing the `napi_env` between instances of the same addon running
on different `Worker` threads is not allowed. The `napi_env` becomes invalid
when an instance of a native addon is unloaded. Notification of this event is
delivered through the callbacks given to `napi_add_env_cleanup_hook` and
`napi_set_instance_data`.

#### `node_api_basic_env`#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

This variant of `napi_env` is passed to synchronous finalizers
(`node_api_basic_finalize`). There is a subset of Node-APIs which accept a
parameter of type `node_api_basic_env` as their first argument. These APIs do
not access the state of the JavaScript engine and are thus safe to call from
synchronous finalizers. Passing a parameter of type `napi_env` to these APIs
is allowed, however, passing a parameter of type `node_api_basic_env` to APIs
that access the JavaScript engine state is not allowed. Attempting to do so
without a cast will produce a compiler warning or an error when add-ons are
compiled with flags which cause them to emit warnings and/or errors when
incorrect pointer types are passed into a function. Calling such APIs from a
synchronous finalizer will ultimately result in the termination of the
application.

#### `napi_value`#

This is an opaque pointer that is used to represent a JavaScript value.

#### `napi_threadsafe_function`#

Added in: v10.6.0 N-API version: 4

This is an opaque pointer that represents a JavaScript function which can be
called asynchronously from multiple threads via
`napi_call_threadsafe_function()`.

#### `napi_threadsafe_function_release_mode`#

Added in: v10.6.0 N-API version: 4

A value to be given to `napi_release_threadsafe_function()` to indicate
whether the thread-safe function is to be closed immediately
(`napi_tsfn_abort`) or merely released (`napi_tsfn_release`) and thus
available for subsequent use via `napi_acquire_threadsafe_function()` and
`napi_call_threadsafe_function()`.

    
    
    typedef enum {
      napi_tsfn_release,
      napi_tsfn_abort
    } napi_threadsafe_function_release_mode; copy

#### `napi_threadsafe_function_call_mode`#

Added in: v10.6.0 N-API version: 4

A value to be given to `napi_call_threadsafe_function()` to indicate whether
the call should block whenever the queue associated with the thread-safe
function is full.

    
    
    typedef enum {
      napi_tsfn_nonblocking,
      napi_tsfn_blocking
    } napi_threadsafe_function_call_mode; copy

#### Node-API memory management types#

##### `napi_handle_scope`#

This is an abstraction used to control and modify the lifetime of objects
created within a particular scope. In general, Node-API values are created
within the context of a handle scope. When a native method is called from
JavaScript, a default handle scope will exist. If the user does not explicitly
create a new handle scope, Node-API values will be created in the default
handle scope. For any invocations of code outside the execution of a native
method (for instance, during a libuv callback invocation), the module is
required to create a scope before invoking any functions that can result in
the creation of JavaScript values.

Handle scopes are created using `napi_open_handle_scope` and are destroyed
using `napi_close_handle_scope`. Closing the scope can indicate to the GC that
all `napi_value`s created during the lifetime of the handle scope are no
longer referenced from the current stack frame.

For more details, review the Object lifetime management.

##### `napi_escapable_handle_scope`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

Escapable handle scopes are a special type of handle scope to return values
created within a particular handle scope to a parent scope.

##### `napi_ref`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

This is the abstraction to use to reference a `napi_value`. This allows for
users to manage the lifetimes of JavaScript values, including defining their
minimum lifetimes explicitly.

For more details, review the Object lifetime management.

##### `napi_type_tag`#

Added in: v14.8.0, v12.19.0 N-API version: 8

A 128-bit value stored as two unsigned 64-bit integers. It serves as a UUID
with which JavaScript objects or externals can be "tagged" in order to ensure
that they are of a certain type. This is a stronger check than
`napi_instanceof`, because the latter can report a false positive if the
object's prototype has been manipulated. Type-tagging is most useful in
conjunction with `napi_wrap` because it ensures that the pointer retrieved
from a wrapped object can be safely cast to the native type corresponding to
the type tag that had been previously applied to the JavaScript object.

    
    
    typedef struct {
      uint64_t lower;
      uint64_t upper;
    } napi_type_tag; copy

##### `napi_async_cleanup_hook_handle`#

Added in: v14.10.0, v12.19.0

An opaque value returned by `napi_add_async_cleanup_hook`. It must be passed
to `napi_remove_async_cleanup_hook` when the chain of asynchronous cleanup
events completes.

#### Node-API callback types#

##### `napi_callback_info`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

Opaque datatype that is passed to a callback function. It can be used for
getting additional information about the context in which the callback was
invoked.

##### `napi_callback`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

Function pointer type for user-provided native functions which are to be
exposed to JavaScript via Node-API. Callback functions should satisfy the
following signature:

    
    
    typedef napi_value (*napi_callback)(napi_env, napi_callback_info); copy

Unless for reasons discussed in Object Lifetime Management, creating a handle
and/or callback scope inside a `napi_callback` is not necessary.

##### `node_api_basic_finalize`#

Added in: v21.6.0, v20.12.0, v18.20.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Function pointer type for add-on provided functions that allow the user to be
notified when externally-owned data is ready to be cleaned up because the
object it was associated with has been garbage-collected. The user must
provide a function satisfying the following signature which would get called
upon the object's collection. Currently, `node_api_basic_finalize` can be used
for finding out when objects that have external data are collected.

    
    
    typedef void (*node_api_basic_finalize)(node_api_basic_env env,
                                          void* finalize_data,
                                          void* finalize_hint); copy

Unless for reasons discussed in Object Lifetime Management, creating a handle
and/or callback scope inside the function body is not necessary.

Since these functions may be called while the JavaScript engine is in a state
where it cannot execute JavaScript code, only Node-APIs which accept a
`node_api_basic_env` as their first parameter may be called.
`node_api_post_finalizer` can be used to schedule Node-API calls that require
access to the JavaScript engine's state to run after the current garbage
collection cycle has completed.

In the case of `node_api_create_external_string_latin1` and
`node_api_create_external_string_utf16` the `env` parameter may be null,
because external strings can be collected during the latter part of
environment shutdown.

Change History:

  * experimental (`NAPI_EXPERIMENTAL`):

Only Node-API calls that accept a `node_api_basic_env` as their first
parameter may be called, otherwise the application will be terminated with an
appropriate error message. This feature can be turned off by defining
`NODE_API_EXPERIMENTAL_BASIC_ENV_OPT_OUT`.

##### `napi_finalize`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

Function pointer type for add-on provided function that allow the user to
schedule a group of calls to Node-APIs in response to a garbage collection
event, after the garbage collection cycle has completed. These function
pointers can be used with `node_api_post_finalizer`.

    
    
    typedef void (*napi_finalize)(napi_env env,
                                  void* finalize_data,
                                  void* finalize_hint); copy

Change History:

  * experimental (`NAPI_EXPERIMENTAL` is defined):

A function of this type may no longer be used as a finalizer, except with
`node_api_post_finalizer`. `node_api_basic_finalize` must be used instead.
This feature can be turned off by defining
`NODE_API_EXPERIMENTAL_BASIC_ENV_OPT_OUT`.

##### `napi_async_execute_callback`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

Function pointer used with functions that support asynchronous operations.
Callback functions must satisfy the following signature:

    
    
    typedef void (*napi_async_execute_callback)(napi_env env, void* data); copy

Implementations of this function must avoid making Node-API calls that execute
JavaScript or interact with JavaScript objects. Node-API calls should be in
the `napi_async_complete_callback` instead. Do not use the `napi_env`
parameter as it will likely result in execution of JavaScript.

##### `napi_async_complete_callback`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

Function pointer used with functions that support asynchronous operations.
Callback functions must satisfy the following signature:

    
    
    typedef void (*napi_async_complete_callback)(napi_env env,
                                                 napi_status status,
                                                 void* data); copy

Unless for reasons discussed in Object Lifetime Management, creating a handle
and/or callback scope inside the function body is not necessary.

##### `napi_threadsafe_function_call_js`#

Added in: v10.6.0 N-API version: 4

Function pointer used with asynchronous thread-safe function calls. The
callback will be called on the main thread. Its purpose is to use a data item
arriving via the queue from one of the secondary threads to construct the
parameters necessary for a call into JavaScript, usually via
`napi_call_function`, and then make the call into JavaScript.

The data arriving from the secondary thread via the queue is given in the
`data` parameter and the JavaScript function to call is given in the
`js_callback` parameter.

Node-API sets up the environment prior to calling this callback, so it is
sufficient to call the JavaScript function via `napi_call_function` rather
than via `napi_make_callback`.

Callback functions must satisfy the following signature:

    
    
    typedef void (*napi_threadsafe_function_call_js)(napi_env env,
                                                     napi_value js_callback,
                                                     void* context,
                                                     void* data); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment to use for API calls, or `NULL` if the thread-safe function is being torn down and `data` may need to be freed.
  * `[in] js_callback`: The JavaScript function to call, or `NULL` if the thread-safe function is being torn down and `data` may need to be freed. It may also be `NULL` if the thread-safe function was created without `js_callback`.
  * `[in] context`: The optional data with which the thread-safe function was created.
  * `[in] data`: Data created by the secondary thread. It is the responsibility of the callback to convert this native data to JavaScript values (with Node-API functions) that can be passed as parameters when `js_callback` is invoked. This pointer is managed entirely by the threads and this callback. Thus this callback should free the data.

Unless for reasons discussed in Object Lifetime Management, creating a handle
and/or callback scope inside the function body is not necessary.

##### `napi_cleanup_hook`#

Added in: v19.2.0, v18.13.0 N-API version: 3

Function pointer used with `napi_add_env_cleanup_hook`. It will be called when
the environment is being torn down.

Callback functions must satisfy the following signature:

    
    
    typedef void (*napi_cleanup_hook)(void* data); copy

  * `[in] data`: The data that was passed to `napi_add_env_cleanup_hook`.

##### `napi_async_cleanup_hook`#

Added in: v14.10.0, v12.19.0

Function pointer used with `napi_add_async_cleanup_hook`. It will be called
when the environment is being torn down.

Callback functions must satisfy the following signature:

    
    
    typedef void (*napi_async_cleanup_hook)(napi_async_cleanup_hook_handle handle,
                                            void* data); copy

  * `[in] handle`: The handle that must be passed to `napi_remove_async_cleanup_hook` after completion of the asynchronous cleanup.
  * `[in] data`: The data that was passed to `napi_add_async_cleanup_hook`.

The body of the function should initiate the asynchronous cleanup actions at
the end of which `handle` must be passed in a call to
`napi_remove_async_cleanup_hook`.

### Error handling#

Node-API uses both return values and JavaScript exceptions for error handling.
The following sections explain the approach for each case.

#### Return values#

All of the Node-API functions share the same error handling pattern. The
return type of all API functions is `napi_status`.

The return value will be `napi_ok` if the request was successful and no
uncaught JavaScript exception was thrown. If an error occurred AND an
exception was thrown, the `napi_status` value for the error will be returned.
If an exception was thrown, and no error occurred, `napi_pending_exception`
will be returned.

In cases where a return value other than `napi_ok` or `napi_pending_exception`
is returned, `napi_is_exception_pending` must be called to check if an
exception is pending. See the section on exceptions for more details.

The full set of possible `napi_status` values is defined in
`napi_api_types.h`.

The `napi_status` return value provides a VM-independent representation of the
error which occurred. In some cases it is useful to be able to get more
detailed information, including a string representing the error as well as VM
(engine)-specific information.

In order to retrieve this information `napi_get_last_error_info` is provided
which returns a `napi_extended_error_info` structure. The format of the
`napi_extended_error_info` structure is as follows:

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    typedef struct napi_extended_error_info {
      const char* error_message;
      void* engine_reserved;
      uint32_t engine_error_code;
      napi_status error_code;
    }; copy

  * `error_message`: Textual representation of the error that occurred.
  * `engine_reserved`: Opaque handle reserved for engine use only.
  * `engine_error_code`: VM specific error code.
  * `error_code`: Node-API status code for the last error.

`napi_get_last_error_info` returns the information for the last Node-API call
that was made.

Do not rely on the content or format of any of the extended information as it
is not subject to SemVer and may change at any time. It is intended only for
logging purposes.

##### `napi_get_last_error_info`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status
    napi_get_last_error_info(node_api_basic_env env,
                             const napi_extended_error_info** result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[out] result`: The `napi_extended_error_info` structure with more information about the error.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API retrieves a `napi_extended_error_info` structure with information
about the last error that occurred.

The content of the `napi_extended_error_info` returned is only valid up until
a Node-API function is called on the same `env`. This includes a call to
`napi_is_exception_pending` so it may often be necessary to make a copy of the
information so that it can be used later. The pointer returned in
`error_message` points to a statically-defined string so it is safe to use
that pointer if you have copied it out of the `error_message` field (which
will be overwritten) before another Node-API function was called.

Do not rely on the content or format of any of the extended information as it
is not subject to SemVer and may change at any time. It is intended only for
logging purposes.

This API can be called even if there is a pending JavaScript exception.

#### Exceptions#

Any Node-API function call may result in a pending JavaScript exception. This
is the case for any of the API functions, even those that may not cause the
execution of JavaScript.

If the `napi_status` returned by a function is `napi_ok` then no exception is
pending and no additional action is required. If the `napi_status` returned is
anything other than `napi_ok` or `napi_pending_exception`, in order to try to
recover and continue instead of simply returning immediately,
`napi_is_exception_pending` must be called in order to determine if an
exception is pending or not.

In many cases when a Node-API function is called and an exception is already
pending, the function will return immediately with a `napi_status` of
`napi_pending_exception`. However, this is not the case for all functions.
Node-API allows a subset of the functions to be called to allow for some
minimal cleanup before returning to JavaScript. In that case, `napi_status`
will reflect the status for the function. It will not reflect previous pending
exceptions. To avoid confusion, check the error status after every function
call.

When an exception is pending one of two approaches can be employed.

The first approach is to do any appropriate cleanup and then return so that
execution will return to JavaScript. As part of the transition back to
JavaScript, the exception will be thrown at the point in the JavaScript code
where the native method was invoked. The behavior of most Node-API calls is
unspecified while an exception is pending, and many will simply return
`napi_pending_exception`, so do as little as possible and then return to
JavaScript where the exception can be handled.

The second approach is to try to handle the exception. There will be cases
where the native code can catch the exception, take the appropriate action,
and then continue. This is only recommended in specific cases where it is
known that the exception can be safely handled. In these cases
`napi_get_and_clear_last_exception` can be used to get and clear the
exception. On success, result will contain the handle to the last JavaScript
`Object` thrown. If it is determined, after retrieving the exception, the
exception cannot be handled after all it can be re-thrown it with `napi_throw`
where error is the JavaScript value to be thrown.

The following utility functions are also available in case native code needs
to throw an exception or determine if a `napi_value` is an instance of a
JavaScript `Error` object: `napi_throw_error`, `napi_throw_type_error`,
`napi_throw_range_error`, `node_api_throw_syntax_error` and `napi_is_error`.

The following utility functions are also available in case native code needs
to create an `Error` object: `napi_create_error`, `napi_create_type_error`,
`napi_create_range_error` and `node_api_create_syntax_error`, where result is
the `napi_value` that refers to the newly created JavaScript `Error` object.

The Node.js project is adding error codes to all of the errors generated
internally. The goal is for applications to use these error codes for all
error checking. The associated error messages will remain, but will only be
meant to be used for logging and display with the expectation that the message
can change without SemVer applying. In order to support this model with Node-
API, both in internal functionality and for module specific functionality (as
its good practice), the `throw_` and `create_` functions take an optional code
parameter which is the string for the code to be added to the error object. If
the optional parameter is `NULL` then no code will be associated with the
error. If a code is provided, the name associated with the error is also
updated to be:

    
    
    originalName [code] copy

where `originalName` is the original name associated with the error and `code`
is the code that was provided. For example, if the code is `'ERR_ERROR_1'` and
a `TypeError` is being created the name will be:

    
    
    TypeError [ERR_ERROR_1] copy

##### `napi_throw`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_throw(napi_env env, napi_value error); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] error`: The JavaScript value to be thrown.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API throws the JavaScript value provided.

##### `napi_throw_error`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_throw_error(napi_env env,
                                             const char* code,
                                             const char* msg); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] code`: Optional error code to be set on the error.
  * `[in] msg`: C string representing the text to be associated with the error.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API throws a JavaScript `Error` with the text provided.

##### `napi_throw_type_error`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_throw_type_error(napi_env env,
                                                  const char* code,
                                                  const char* msg); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] code`: Optional error code to be set on the error.
  * `[in] msg`: C string representing the text to be associated with the error.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API throws a JavaScript `TypeError` with the text provided.

##### `napi_throw_range_error`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_throw_range_error(napi_env env,
                                                   const char* code,
                                                   const char* msg); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] code`: Optional error code to be set on the error.
  * `[in] msg`: C string representing the text to be associated with the error.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API throws a JavaScript `RangeError` with the text provided.

##### `node_api_throw_syntax_error`#

Added in: v17.2.0, v16.14.0 N-API version: 9

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status node_api_throw_syntax_error(napi_env env,
                                                        const char* code,
                                                        const char* msg); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] code`: Optional error code to be set on the error.
  * `[in] msg`: C string representing the text to be associated with the error.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API throws a JavaScript `SyntaxError` with the text provided.

##### `napi_is_error`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_is_error(napi_env env,
                                          napi_value value,
                                          bool* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: The `napi_value` to be checked.
  * `[out] result`: Boolean value that is set to true if `napi_value` represents an error, false otherwise.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API queries a `napi_value` to check if it represents an error object.

##### `napi_create_error`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_create_error(napi_env env,
                                              napi_value code,
                                              napi_value msg,
                                              napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] code`: Optional `napi_value` with the string for the error code to be associated with the error.
  * `[in] msg`: `napi_value` that references a JavaScript `string` to be used as the message for the `Error`.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing the error created.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API returns a JavaScript `Error` with the text provided.

##### `napi_create_type_error`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_create_type_error(napi_env env,
                                                   napi_value code,
                                                   napi_value msg,
                                                   napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] code`: Optional `napi_value` with the string for the error code to be associated with the error.
  * `[in] msg`: `napi_value` that references a JavaScript `string` to be used as the message for the `Error`.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing the error created.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API returns a JavaScript `TypeError` with the text provided.

##### `napi_create_range_error`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_create_range_error(napi_env env,
                                                    napi_value code,
                                                    napi_value msg,
                                                    napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] code`: Optional `napi_value` with the string for the error code to be associated with the error.
  * `[in] msg`: `napi_value` that references a JavaScript `string` to be used as the message for the `Error`.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing the error created.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API returns a JavaScript `RangeError` with the text provided.

##### `node_api_create_syntax_error`#

Added in: v17.2.0, v16.14.0 N-API version: 9

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status node_api_create_syntax_error(napi_env env,
                                                         napi_value code,
                                                         napi_value msg,
                                                         napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] code`: Optional `napi_value` with the string for the error code to be associated with the error.
  * `[in] msg`: `napi_value` that references a JavaScript `string` to be used as the message for the `Error`.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing the error created.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API returns a JavaScript `SyntaxError` with the text provided.

##### `napi_get_and_clear_last_exception`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_and_clear_last_exception(napi_env env,
                                                  napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[out] result`: The exception if one is pending, `NULL` otherwise.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API can be called even if there is a pending JavaScript exception.

##### `napi_is_exception_pending`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_is_exception_pending(napi_env env, bool* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[out] result`: Boolean value that is set to true if an exception is pending.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API can be called even if there is a pending JavaScript exception.

##### `napi_fatal_exception`#

Added in: v9.10.0 N-API version: 3

    
    
    napi_status napi_fatal_exception(napi_env env, napi_value err); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] err`: The error that is passed to `'uncaughtException'`.

Trigger an `'uncaughtException'` in JavaScript. Useful if an async callback
throws an exception with no way to recover.

#### Fatal errors#

In the event of an unrecoverable error in a native addon, a fatal error can be
thrown to immediately terminate the process.

##### `napi_fatal_error`#

Added in: v8.2.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_NO_RETURN void napi_fatal_error(const char* location,
                                         size_t location_len,
                                         const char* message,
                                         size_t message_len); copy

  * `[in] location`: Optional location at which the error occurred.
  * `[in] location_len`: The length of the location in bytes, or `NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH` if it is null-terminated.
  * `[in] message`: The message associated with the error.
  * `[in] message_len`: The length of the message in bytes, or `NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH` if it is null-terminated.

The function call does not return, the process will be terminated.

This API can be called even if there is a pending JavaScript exception.

### Object lifetime management#

As Node-API calls are made, handles to objects in the heap for the underlying
VM may be returned as `napi_values`. These handles must hold the objects
'live' until they are no longer required by the native code, otherwise the
objects could be collected before the native code was finished using them.

As object handles are returned they are associated with a 'scope'. The
lifespan for the default scope is tied to the lifespan of the native method
call. The result is that, by default, handles remain valid and the objects
associated with these handles will be held live for the lifespan of the native
method call.

In many cases, however, it is necessary that the handles remain valid for
either a shorter or longer lifespan than that of the native method. The
sections which follow describe the Node-API functions that can be used to
change the handle lifespan from the default.

#### Making handle lifespan shorter than that of the native method#

It is often necessary to make the lifespan of handles shorter than the
lifespan of a native method. For example, consider a native method that has a
loop which iterates through the elements in a large array:

    
    
    for (int i = 0; i < 1000000; i++) {
      napi_value result;
      napi_status status = napi_get_element(env, object, i, &result);
      if (status != napi_ok) {
        break;
      }
      // do something with element
    } copy

This would result in a large number of handles being created, consuming
substantial resources. In addition, even though the native code could only use
the most recent handle, all of the associated objects would also be kept alive
since they all share the same scope.

To handle this case, Node-API provides the ability to establish a new 'scope'
to which newly created handles will be associated. Once those handles are no
longer required, the scope can be 'closed' and any handles associated with the
scope are invalidated. The methods available to open/close scopes are
`napi_open_handle_scope` and `napi_close_handle_scope`.

Node-API only supports a single nested hierarchy of scopes. There is only one
active scope at any time, and all new handles will be associated with that
scope while it is active. Scopes must be closed in the reverse order from
which they are opened. In addition, all scopes created within a native method
must be closed before returning from that method.

Taking the earlier example, adding calls to `napi_open_handle_scope` and
`napi_close_handle_scope` would ensure that at most a single handle is valid
throughout the execution of the loop:

    
    
    for (int i = 0; i < 1000000; i++) {
      napi_handle_scope scope;
      napi_status status = napi_open_handle_scope(env, &scope);
      if (status != napi_ok) {
        break;
      }
      napi_value result;
      status = napi_get_element(env, object, i, &result);
      if (status != napi_ok) {
        break;
      }
      // do something with element
      status = napi_close_handle_scope(env, scope);
      if (status != napi_ok) {
        break;
      }
    } copy

When nesting scopes, there are cases where a handle from an inner scope needs
to live beyond the lifespan of that scope. Node-API supports an 'escapable
scope' in order to support this case. An escapable scope allows one handle to
be 'promoted' so that it 'escapes' the current scope and the lifespan of the
handle changes from the current scope to that of the outer scope.

The methods available to open/close escapable scopes are
`napi_open_escapable_handle_scope` and `napi_close_escapable_handle_scope`.

The request to promote a handle is made through `napi_escape_handle` which can
only be called once.

##### `napi_open_handle_scope`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_open_handle_scope(napi_env env,
                                                   napi_handle_scope* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing the new scope.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API opens a new scope.

##### `napi_close_handle_scope`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_close_handle_scope(napi_env env,
                                                    napi_handle_scope scope); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] scope`: `napi_value` representing the scope to be closed.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API closes the scope passed in. Scopes must be closed in the reverse
order from which they were created.

This API can be called even if there is a pending JavaScript exception.

##### `napi_open_escapable_handle_scope`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status
        napi_open_escapable_handle_scope(napi_env env,
                                         napi_handle_scope* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing the new scope.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API opens a new scope from which one object can be promoted to the outer
scope.

##### `napi_close_escapable_handle_scope`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status
        napi_close_escapable_handle_scope(napi_env env,
                                          napi_handle_scope scope); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] scope`: `napi_value` representing the scope to be closed.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API closes the scope passed in. Scopes must be closed in the reverse
order from which they were created.

This API can be called even if there is a pending JavaScript exception.

##### `napi_escape_handle`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_escape_handle(napi_env env,
                                   napi_escapable_handle_scope scope,
                                   napi_value escapee,
                                   napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] scope`: `napi_value` representing the current scope.
  * `[in] escapee`: `napi_value` representing the JavaScript `Object` to be escaped.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing the handle to the escaped `Object` in the outer scope.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API promotes the handle to the JavaScript object so that it is valid for
the lifetime of the outer scope. It can only be called once per scope. If it
is called more than once an error will be returned.

This API can be called even if there is a pending JavaScript exception.

#### References to values with a lifespan longer than that of the native
method#

In some cases, an addon will need to be able to create and reference values
with a lifespan longer than that of a single native method invocation. For
example, to create a constructor and later use that constructor in a request
to create instances, it must be possible to reference the constructor object
across many different instance creation requests. This would not be possible
with a normal handle returned as a `napi_value` as described in the earlier
section. The lifespan of a normal handle is managed by scopes and all scopes
must be closed before the end of a native method.

Node-API provides methods for creating persistent references to values.
Currently Node-API only allows references to be created for a limited set of
value types, including object, external, function, and symbol.

Each reference has an associated count with a value of 0 or higher, which
determines whether the reference will keep the corresponding value alive.
References with a count of 0 do not prevent values from being collected.
Values of object (object, function, external) and symbol types are becoming
'weak' references and can still be accessed while they are not collected. Any
count greater than 0 will prevent the values from being collected.

Symbol values have different flavors. The true weak reference behavior is only
supported by local symbols created with the `napi_create_symbol` function or
the JavaScript `Symbol()` constructor calls. Globally registered symbols
created with the `node_api_symbol_for` function or JavaScript `Symbol.for()`
function calls remain always strong references because the garbage collector
does not collect them. The same is true for well-known symbols such as
`Symbol.iterator`. They are also never collected by the garbage collector.

References can be created with an initial reference count. The count can then
be modified through `napi_reference_ref` and `napi_reference_unref`. If an
object is collected while the count for a reference is 0, all subsequent calls
to get the object associated with the reference `napi_get_reference_value`
will return `NULL` for the returned `napi_value`. An attempt to call
`napi_reference_ref` for a reference whose object has been collected results
in an error.

References must be deleted once they are no longer required by the addon. When
a reference is deleted, it will no longer prevent the corresponding object
from being collected. Failure to delete a persistent reference results in a
'memory leak' with both the native memory for the persistent reference and the
corresponding object on the heap being retained forever.

There can be multiple persistent references created which refer to the same
object, each of which will either keep the object live or not based on its
individual count. Multiple persistent references to the same object can result
in unexpectedly keeping alive native memory. The native structures for a
persistent reference must be kept alive until finalizers for the referenced
object are executed. If a new persistent reference is created for the same
object, the finalizers for that object will not be run and the native memory
pointed by the earlier persistent reference will not be freed. This can be
avoided by calling `napi_delete_reference` in addition to
`napi_reference_unref` when possible.

**Change History:**

  * Version 10 (`NAPI_VERSION` is defined as `10` or higher):

References can be created for all value types. The new supported value types
do not support weak reference semantic and the values of these types are
released when the reference count becomes 0 and cannot be accessed from the
reference anymore.

##### `napi_create_reference`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_create_reference(napi_env env,
                                                  napi_value value,
                                                  uint32_t initial_refcount,
                                                  napi_ref* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: The `napi_value` for which a reference is being created.
  * `[in] initial_refcount`: Initial reference count for the new reference.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_ref` pointing to the new reference.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API creates a new reference with the specified reference count to the
value passed in.

##### `napi_delete_reference`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_delete_reference(napi_env env, napi_ref ref); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] ref`: `napi_ref` to be deleted.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API deletes the reference passed in.

This API can be called even if there is a pending JavaScript exception.

##### `napi_reference_ref`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_reference_ref(napi_env env,
                                               napi_ref ref,
                                               uint32_t* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] ref`: `napi_ref` for which the reference count will be incremented.
  * `[out] result`: The new reference count.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API increments the reference count for the reference passed in and
returns the resulting reference count.

##### `napi_reference_unref`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_reference_unref(napi_env env,
                                                 napi_ref ref,
                                                 uint32_t* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] ref`: `napi_ref` for which the reference count will be decremented.
  * `[out] result`: The new reference count.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API decrements the reference count for the reference passed in and
returns the resulting reference count.

##### `napi_get_reference_value`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_get_reference_value(napi_env env,
                                                     napi_ref ref,
                                                     napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] ref`: The `napi_ref` for which the corresponding value is being requested.
  * `[out] result`: The `napi_value` referenced by the `napi_ref`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

If still valid, this API returns the `napi_value` representing the JavaScript
value associated with the `napi_ref`. Otherwise, result will be `NULL`.

#### Cleanup on exit of the current Node.js environment#

While a Node.js process typically releases all its resources when exiting,
embedders of Node.js, or future Worker support, may require addons to register
clean-up hooks that will be run once the current Node.js environment exits.

Node-API provides functions for registering and un-registering such callbacks.
When those callbacks are run, all resources that are being held by the addon
should be freed up.

##### `napi_add_env_cleanup_hook`#

Added in: v10.2.0 N-API version: 3

    
    
    NODE_EXTERN napi_status napi_add_env_cleanup_hook(node_api_basic_env env,
                                                      napi_cleanup_hook fun,
                                                      void* arg); copy

Registers `fun` as a function to be run with the `arg` parameter once the
current Node.js environment exits.

A function can safely be specified multiple times with different `arg` values.
In that case, it will be called multiple times as well. Providing the same
`fun` and `arg` values multiple times is not allowed and will lead the process
to abort.

The hooks will be called in reverse order, i.e. the most recently added one
will be called first.

Removing this hook can be done by using `napi_remove_env_cleanup_hook`.
Typically, that happens when the resource for which this hook was added is
being torn down anyway.

For asynchronous cleanup, `napi_add_async_cleanup_hook` is available.

##### `napi_remove_env_cleanup_hook`#

Added in: v10.2.0 N-API version: 3

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_remove_env_cleanup_hook(node_api_basic_env env,
                                                         void (*fun)(void* arg),
                                                         void* arg); copy

Unregisters `fun` as a function to be run with the `arg` parameter once the
current Node.js environment exits. Both the argument and the function value
need to be exact matches.

The function must have originally been registered with
`napi_add_env_cleanup_hook`, otherwise the process will abort.

##### `napi_add_async_cleanup_hook`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.10.0, v12.19.0 | Changed signature of the `hook` callback.  
v14.8.0, v12.19.0 | Added in: v14.8.0, v12.19.0  
N-API version: 8

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_add_async_cleanup_hook(
        node_api_basic_env env,
        napi_async_cleanup_hook hook,
        void* arg,
        napi_async_cleanup_hook_handle* remove_handle); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] hook`: The function pointer to call at environment teardown.
  * `[in] arg`: The pointer to pass to `hook` when it gets called.
  * `[out] remove_handle`: Optional handle that refers to the asynchronous cleanup hook.

Registers `hook`, which is a function of type `napi_async_cleanup_hook`, as a
function to be run with the `remove_handle` and `arg` parameters once the
current Node.js environment exits.

Unlike `napi_add_env_cleanup_hook`, the hook is allowed to be asynchronous.

Otherwise, behavior generally matches that of `napi_add_env_cleanup_hook`.

If `remove_handle` is not `NULL`, an opaque value will be stored in it that
must later be passed to `napi_remove_async_cleanup_hook`, regardless of
whether the hook has already been invoked. Typically, that happens when the
resource for which this hook was added is being torn down anyway.

##### `napi_remove_async_cleanup_hook`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.10.0, v12.19.0 | Removed `env` parameter.  
v14.8.0, v12.19.0 | Added in: v14.8.0, v12.19.0  
      
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_remove_async_cleanup_hook(
        napi_async_cleanup_hook_handle remove_handle); copy

  * `[in] remove_handle`: The handle to an asynchronous cleanup hook that was created with `napi_add_async_cleanup_hook`.

Unregisters the cleanup hook corresponding to `remove_handle`. This will
prevent the hook from being executed, unless it has already started executing.
This must be called on any `napi_async_cleanup_hook_handle` value obtained
from `napi_add_async_cleanup_hook`.

#### Finalization on the exit of the Node.js environment#

The Node.js environment may be torn down at an arbitrary time as soon as
possible with JavaScript execution disallowed, like on the request of
`worker.terminate()`. When the environment is being torn down, the registered
`napi_finalize` callbacks of JavaScript objects, thread-safe functions and
environment instance data are invoked immediately and independently.

The invocation of `napi_finalize` callbacks is scheduled after the manually
registered cleanup hooks. In order to ensure a proper order of addon
finalization during environment shutdown to avoid use-after-free in the
`napi_finalize` callback, addons should register a cleanup hook with
`napi_add_env_cleanup_hook` and `napi_add_async_cleanup_hook` to manually
release the allocated resource in a proper order.

### Module registration#

Node-API modules are registered in a manner similar to other modules except
that instead of using the `NODE_MODULE` macro the following is used:

    
    
    NAPI_MODULE(NODE_GYP_MODULE_NAME, Init) copy

The next difference is the signature for the `Init` method. For a Node-API
module it is as follows:

    
    
    napi_value Init(napi_env env, napi_value exports); copy

The return value from `Init` is treated as the `exports` object for the
module. The `Init` method is passed an empty object via the `exports`
parameter as a convenience. If `Init` returns `NULL`, the parameter passed as
`exports` is exported by the module. Node-API modules cannot modify the
`module` object but can specify anything as the `exports` property of the
module.

To add the method `hello` as a function so that it can be called as a method
provided by the addon:

    
    
    napi_value Init(napi_env env, napi_value exports) {
      napi_status status;
      napi_property_descriptor desc = {
        "hello",
        NULL,
        Method,
        NULL,
        NULL,
        NULL,
        napi_writable | napi_enumerable | napi_configurable,
        NULL
      };
      status = napi_define_properties(env, exports, 1, &desc);
      if (status != napi_ok) return NULL;
      return exports;
    } copy

To set a function to be returned by the `require()` for the addon:

    
    
    napi_value Init(napi_env env, napi_value exports) {
      napi_value method;
      napi_status status;
      status = napi_create_function(env, "exports", NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH, Method, NULL, &method);
      if (status != napi_ok) return NULL;
      return method;
    } copy

To define a class so that new instances can be created (often used with Object
wrap):

    
    
    // NOTE: partial example, not all referenced code is included
    napi_value Init(napi_env env, napi_value exports) {
      napi_status status;
      napi_property_descriptor properties[] = {
        { "value", NULL, NULL, GetValue, SetValue, NULL, napi_writable | napi_configurable, NULL },
        DECLARE_NAPI_METHOD("plusOne", PlusOne),
        DECLARE_NAPI_METHOD("multiply", Multiply),
      };
    
      napi_value cons;
      status =
          napi_define_class(env, "MyObject", New, NULL, 3, properties, &cons);
      if (status != napi_ok) return NULL;
    
      status = napi_create_reference(env, cons, 1, &constructor);
      if (status != napi_ok) return NULL;
    
      status = napi_set_named_property(env, exports, "MyObject", cons);
      if (status != napi_ok) return NULL;
    
      return exports;
    } copy

You can also use the `NAPI_MODULE_INIT` macro, which acts as a shorthand for
`NAPI_MODULE` and defining an `Init` function:

    
    
    NAPI_MODULE_INIT(/* napi_env env, napi_value exports */) {
      napi_value answer;
      napi_status result;
    
      status = napi_create_int64(env, 42, &answer);
      if (status != napi_ok) return NULL;
    
      status = napi_set_named_property(env, exports, "answer", answer);
      if (status != napi_ok) return NULL;
    
      return exports;
    } copy

The parameters `env` and `exports` are provided to the body of the
`NAPI_MODULE_INIT` macro.

All Node-API addons are context-aware, meaning they may be loaded multiple
times. There are a few design considerations when declaring such a module. The
documentation on context-aware addons provides more details.

The variables `env` and `exports` will be available inside the function body
following the macro invocation.

For more details on setting properties on objects, see the section on Working
with JavaScript properties.

For more details on building addon modules in general, refer to the existing
API.

### Working with JavaScript values#

Node-API exposes a set of APIs to create all types of JavaScript values. Some
of these types are documented under [Section
6](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-ecmascript-data-types-and-values) of
the [ECMAScript Language Specification](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/).

Fundamentally, these APIs are used to do one of the following:

  1. Create a new JavaScript object
  2. Convert from a primitive C type to a Node-API value
  3. Convert from Node-API value to a primitive C type
  4. Get global instances including `undefined` and `null`

Node-API values are represented by the type `napi_value`. Any Node-API call
that requires a JavaScript value takes in a `napi_value`. In some cases, the
API does check the type of the `napi_value` up-front. However, for better
performance, it's better for the caller to make sure that the `napi_value` in
question is of the JavaScript type expected by the API.

#### Enum types#

##### `napi_key_collection_mode`#

Added in: v13.7.0, v12.17.0, v10.20.0 N-API version: 6

    
    
    typedef enum {
      napi_key_include_prototypes,
      napi_key_own_only
    } napi_key_collection_mode; copy

Describes the `Keys/Properties` filter enums:

`napi_key_collection_mode` limits the range of collected properties.

`napi_key_own_only` limits the collected properties to the given object only.
`napi_key_include_prototypes` will include all keys of the objects's prototype
chain as well.

##### `napi_key_filter`#

Added in: v13.7.0, v12.17.0, v10.20.0 N-API version: 6

    
    
    typedef enum {
      napi_key_all_properties = 0,
      napi_key_writable = 1,
      napi_key_enumerable = 1 << 1,
      napi_key_configurable = 1 << 2,
      napi_key_skip_strings = 1 << 3,
      napi_key_skip_symbols = 1 << 4
    } napi_key_filter; copy

Property filter bits. They can be or'ed to build a composite filter.

##### `napi_key_conversion`#

Added in: v13.7.0, v12.17.0, v10.20.0 N-API version: 6

    
    
    typedef enum {
      napi_key_keep_numbers,
      napi_key_numbers_to_strings
    } napi_key_conversion; copy

`napi_key_numbers_to_strings` will convert integer indexes to strings.
`napi_key_keep_numbers` will return numbers for integer indexes.

##### `napi_valuetype`#

    
    
    typedef enum {
      // ES6 types (corresponds to typeof)
      napi_undefined,
      napi_null,
      napi_boolean,
      napi_number,
      napi_string,
      napi_symbol,
      napi_object,
      napi_function,
      napi_external,
      napi_bigint,
    } napi_valuetype; copy

Describes the type of a `napi_value`. This generally corresponds to the types
described in [Section 6.1](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-ecmascript-
language-types) of the ECMAScript Language Specification. In addition to types
in that section, `napi_valuetype` can also represent `Function`s and `Object`s
with external data.

A JavaScript value of type `napi_external` appears in JavaScript as a plain
object such that no properties can be set on it, and no prototype.

##### `napi_typedarray_type`#

    
    
    typedef enum {
      napi_int8_array,
      napi_uint8_array,
      napi_uint8_clamped_array,
      napi_int16_array,
      napi_uint16_array,
      napi_int32_array,
      napi_uint32_array,
      napi_float32_array,
      napi_float64_array,
      napi_bigint64_array,
      napi_biguint64_array,
    } napi_typedarray_type; copy

This represents the underlying binary scalar datatype of the `TypedArray`.
Elements of this enum correspond to [Section
22.2](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-typedarray-objects) of the
[ECMAScript Language Specification](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/).

#### Object creation functions#

##### `napi_create_array`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_array(napi_env env, napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `Array`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API returns a Node-API value corresponding to a JavaScript `Array` type.
JavaScript arrays are described in [Section
22.1](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-array-objects) of the ECMAScript
Language Specification.

##### `napi_create_array_with_length`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_array_with_length(napi_env env,
                                              size_t length,
                                              napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] length`: The initial length of the `Array`.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `Array`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API returns a Node-API value corresponding to a JavaScript `Array` type.
The `Array`'s length property is set to the passed-in length parameter.
However, the underlying buffer is not guaranteed to be pre-allocated by the VM
when the array is created. That behavior is left to the underlying VM
implementation. If the buffer must be a contiguous block of memory that can be
directly read and/or written via C, consider using
`napi_create_external_arraybuffer`.

JavaScript arrays are described in [Section
22.1](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-array-objects) of the ECMAScript
Language Specification.

##### `napi_create_arraybuffer`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_arraybuffer(napi_env env,
                                        size_t byte_length,
                                        void** data,
                                        napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] length`: The length in bytes of the array buffer to create.
  * `[out] data`: Pointer to the underlying byte buffer of the `ArrayBuffer`. `data` can optionally be ignored by passing `NULL`.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `ArrayBuffer`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API returns a Node-API value corresponding to a JavaScript `ArrayBuffer`.
`ArrayBuffer`s are used to represent fixed-length binary data buffers. They
are normally used as a backing-buffer for `TypedArray` objects. The
`ArrayBuffer` allocated will have an underlying byte buffer whose size is
determined by the `length` parameter that's passed in. The underlying buffer
is optionally returned back to the caller in case the caller wants to directly
manipulate the buffer. This buffer can only be written to directly from native
code. To write to this buffer from JavaScript, a typed array or `DataView`
object would need to be created.

JavaScript `ArrayBuffer` objects are described in [Section
24.1](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-arraybuffer-objects) of the
ECMAScript Language Specification.

##### `napi_create_buffer`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_buffer(napi_env env,
                                   size_t size,
                                   void** data,
                                   napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] size`: Size in bytes of the underlying buffer.
  * `[out] data`: Raw pointer to the underlying buffer. `data` can optionally be ignored by passing `NULL`.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a `node::Buffer`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API allocates a `node::Buffer` object. While this is still a fully-
supported data structure, in most cases using a `TypedArray` will suffice.

##### `napi_create_buffer_copy`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_buffer_copy(napi_env env,
                                        size_t length,
                                        const void* data,
                                        void** result_data,
                                        napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] size`: Size in bytes of the input buffer (should be the same as the size of the new buffer).
  * `[in] data`: Raw pointer to the underlying buffer to copy from.
  * `[out] result_data`: Pointer to the new `Buffer`'s underlying data buffer. `result_data` can optionally be ignored by passing `NULL`.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a `node::Buffer`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API allocates a `node::Buffer` object and initializes it with data copied
from the passed-in buffer. While this is still a fully-supported data
structure, in most cases using a `TypedArray` will suffice.

##### `napi_create_date`#

Added in: v11.11.0, v10.17.0 N-API version: 5

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_date(napi_env env,
                                 double time,
                                 napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] time`: ECMAScript time value in milliseconds since 01 January, 1970 UTC.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `Date`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API does not observe leap seconds; they are ignored, as ECMAScript aligns
with POSIX time specification.

This API allocates a JavaScript `Date` object.

JavaScript `Date` objects are described in [Section
20.3](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-date-objects) of the ECMAScript
Language Specification.

##### `napi_create_external`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_external(napi_env env,
                                     void* data,
                                     napi_finalize finalize_cb,
                                     void* finalize_hint,
                                     napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] data`: Raw pointer to the external data.
  * `[in] finalize_cb`: Optional callback to call when the external value is being collected. `napi_finalize` provides more details.
  * `[in] finalize_hint`: Optional hint to pass to the finalize callback during collection.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing an external value.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API allocates a JavaScript value with external data attached to it. This
is used to pass external data through JavaScript code, so it can be retrieved
later by native code using `napi_get_value_external`.

The API adds a `napi_finalize` callback which will be called when the
JavaScript object just created has been garbage collected.

The created value is not an object, and therefore does not support additional
properties. It is considered a distinct value type: calling `napi_typeof()`
with an external value yields `napi_external`.

##### `napi_create_external_arraybuffer`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status
    napi_create_external_arraybuffer(napi_env env,
                                     void* external_data,
                                     size_t byte_length,
                                     napi_finalize finalize_cb,
                                     void* finalize_hint,
                                     napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] external_data`: Pointer to the underlying byte buffer of the `ArrayBuffer`.
  * `[in] byte_length`: The length in bytes of the underlying buffer.
  * `[in] finalize_cb`: Optional callback to call when the `ArrayBuffer` is being collected. `napi_finalize` provides more details.
  * `[in] finalize_hint`: Optional hint to pass to the finalize callback during collection.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `ArrayBuffer`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

**Some runtimes other than Node.js have dropped support for external
buffers**. On runtimes other than Node.js this method may return
`napi_no_external_buffers_allowed` to indicate that external buffers are not
supported. One such runtime is Electron as described in this issue
[electron/issues/35801](https://github.com/electron/electron/issues/35801).

In order to maintain broadest compatibility with all runtimes you may define
`NODE_API_NO_EXTERNAL_BUFFERS_ALLOWED` in your addon before includes for the
node-api headers. Doing so will hide the 2 functions that create external
buffers. This will ensure a compilation error occurs if you accidentally use
one of these methods.

This API returns a Node-API value corresponding to a JavaScript `ArrayBuffer`.
The underlying byte buffer of the `ArrayBuffer` is externally allocated and
managed. The caller must ensure that the byte buffer remains valid until the
finalize callback is called.

The API adds a `napi_finalize` callback which will be called when the
JavaScript object just created has been garbage collected.

JavaScript `ArrayBuffer`s are described in [Section
24.1](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-arraybuffer-objects) of the
ECMAScript Language Specification.

##### `napi_create_external_buffer`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_external_buffer(napi_env env,
                                            size_t length,
                                            void* data,
                                            napi_finalize finalize_cb,
                                            void* finalize_hint,
                                            napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] length`: Size in bytes of the input buffer (should be the same as the size of the new buffer).
  * `[in] data`: Raw pointer to the underlying buffer to expose to JavaScript.
  * `[in] finalize_cb`: Optional callback to call when the `ArrayBuffer` is being collected. `napi_finalize` provides more details.
  * `[in] finalize_hint`: Optional hint to pass to the finalize callback during collection.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a `node::Buffer`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

**Some runtimes other than Node.js have dropped support for external
buffers**. On runtimes other than Node.js this method may return
`napi_no_external_buffers_allowed` to indicate that external buffers are not
supported. One such runtime is Electron as described in this issue
[electron/issues/35801](https://github.com/electron/electron/issues/35801).

In order to maintain broadest compatibility with all runtimes you may define
`NODE_API_NO_EXTERNAL_BUFFERS_ALLOWED` in your addon before includes for the
node-api headers. Doing so will hide the 2 functions that create external
buffers. This will ensure a compilation error occurs if you accidentally use
one of these methods.

This API allocates a `node::Buffer` object and initializes it with data backed
by the passed in buffer. While this is still a fully-supported data structure,
in most cases using a `TypedArray` will suffice.

The API adds a `napi_finalize` callback which will be called when the
JavaScript object just created has been garbage collected.

For Node.js >=4 `Buffers` are `Uint8Array`s.

##### `napi_create_object`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_object(napi_env env, napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `Object`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API allocates a default JavaScript `Object`. It is the equivalent of
doing `new Object()` in JavaScript.

The JavaScript `Object` type is described in [Section
6.1.7](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-object-type) of the ECMAScript
Language Specification.

##### `napi_create_symbol`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_symbol(napi_env env,
                                   napi_value description,
                                   napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] description`: Optional `napi_value` which refers to a JavaScript `string` to be set as the description for the symbol.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `symbol`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API creates a JavaScript `symbol` value from a UTF8-encoded C string.

The JavaScript `symbol` type is described in [Section
19.4](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-symbol-objects) of the ECMAScript
Language Specification.

##### `node_api_symbol_for`#

Added in: v17.5.0, v16.15.0 N-API version: 9

    
    
    napi_status node_api_symbol_for(napi_env env,
                                    const char* utf8description,
                                    size_t length,
                                    napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] utf8description`: UTF-8 C string representing the text to be used as the description for the symbol.
  * `[in] length`: The length of the description string in bytes, or `NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH` if it is null-terminated.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `symbol`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API searches in the global registry for an existing symbol with the given
description. If the symbol already exists it will be returned, otherwise a new
symbol will be created in the registry.

The JavaScript `symbol` type is described in [Section
19.4](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-symbol-objects) of the ECMAScript
Language Specification.

##### `napi_create_typedarray`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_typedarray(napi_env env,
                                       napi_typedarray_type type,
                                       size_t length,
                                       napi_value arraybuffer,
                                       size_t byte_offset,
                                       napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] type`: Scalar datatype of the elements within the `TypedArray`.
  * `[in] length`: Number of elements in the `TypedArray`.
  * `[in] arraybuffer`: `ArrayBuffer` underlying the typed array.
  * `[in] byte_offset`: The byte offset within the `ArrayBuffer` from which to start projecting the `TypedArray`.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `TypedArray`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API creates a JavaScript `TypedArray` object over an existing
`ArrayBuffer`. `TypedArray` objects provide an array-like view over an
underlying data buffer where each element has the same underlying binary
scalar datatype.

It's required that `(length * size_of_element) + byte_offset` should be <= the
size in bytes of the array passed in. If not, a `RangeError` exception is
raised.

JavaScript `TypedArray` objects are described in [Section
22.2](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-typedarray-objects) of the
ECMAScript Language Specification.

##### `node_api_create_buffer_from_arraybuffer`#

Added in: v23.0.0 N-API version: 10

    
    
    napi_status NAPI_CDECL node_api_create_buffer_from_arraybuffer(napi_env env,
                                                                  napi_value arraybuffer,
                                                                  size_t byte_offset,
                                                                  size_t byte_length,
                                                                  napi_value* result) copy

  * **`[in] env`** : The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * **`[in] arraybuffer`** : The `ArrayBuffer` from which the buffer will be created.
  * **`[in] byte_offset`** : The byte offset within the `ArrayBuffer` from which to start creating the buffer.
  * **`[in] byte_length`** : The length in bytes of the buffer to be created from the `ArrayBuffer`.
  * **`[out] result`** : A `napi_value` representing the created JavaScript `Buffer` object.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API creates a JavaScript `Buffer` object from an existing `ArrayBuffer`.
The `Buffer` object is a Node.js-specific class that provides a way to work
with binary data directly in JavaScript.

The byte range `[byte_offset, byte_offset + byte_length)` must be within the
bounds of the `ArrayBuffer`. If `byte_offset + byte_length` exceeds the size
of the `ArrayBuffer`, a `RangeError` exception is raised.

##### `napi_create_dataview`#

Added in: v8.3.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_dataview(napi_env env,
                                     size_t byte_length,
                                     napi_value arraybuffer,
                                     size_t byte_offset,
                                     napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] length`: Number of elements in the `DataView`.
  * `[in] arraybuffer`: `ArrayBuffer` underlying the `DataView`.
  * `[in] byte_offset`: The byte offset within the `ArrayBuffer` from which to start projecting the `DataView`.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `DataView`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API creates a JavaScript `DataView` object over an existing
`ArrayBuffer`. `DataView` objects provide an array-like view over an
underlying data buffer, but one which allows items of different size and type
in the `ArrayBuffer`.

It is required that `byte_length + byte_offset` is less than or equal to the
size in bytes of the array passed in. If not, a `RangeError` exception is
raised.

JavaScript `DataView` objects are described in [Section
24.3](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-dataview-objects) of the ECMAScript
Language Specification.

#### Functions to convert from C types to Node-API#

##### `napi_create_int32`#

Added in: v8.4.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_int32(napi_env env, int32_t value, napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: Integer value to be represented in JavaScript.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `number`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API is used to convert from the C `int32_t` type to the JavaScript
`number` type.

The JavaScript `number` type is described in [Section
6.1.6](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-ecmascript-language-types-number-
type) of the ECMAScript Language Specification.

##### `napi_create_uint32`#

Added in: v8.4.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_uint32(napi_env env, uint32_t value, napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: Unsigned integer value to be represented in JavaScript.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `number`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API is used to convert from the C `uint32_t` type to the JavaScript
`number` type.

The JavaScript `number` type is described in [Section
6.1.6](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-ecmascript-language-types-number-
type) of the ECMAScript Language Specification.

##### `napi_create_int64`#

Added in: v8.4.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_int64(napi_env env, int64_t value, napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: Integer value to be represented in JavaScript.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `number`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API is used to convert from the C `int64_t` type to the JavaScript
`number` type.

The JavaScript `number` type is described in [Section
6.1.6](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-ecmascript-language-types-number-
type) of the ECMAScript Language Specification. Note the complete range of
`int64_t` cannot be represented with full precision in JavaScript. Integer
values outside the range of
[`Number.MIN_SAFE_INTEGER`](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-
number.min_safe_integer) `-(2**53 - 1)` \-
[`Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER`](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-
number.max_safe_integer) `(2**53 - 1)` will lose precision.

##### `napi_create_double`#

Added in: v8.4.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_double(napi_env env, double value, napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: Double-precision value to be represented in JavaScript.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `number`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API is used to convert from the C `double` type to the JavaScript
`number` type.

The JavaScript `number` type is described in [Section
6.1.6](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-ecmascript-language-types-number-
type) of the ECMAScript Language Specification.

##### `napi_create_bigint_int64`#

Added in: v10.7.0 N-API version: 6

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_bigint_int64(napi_env env,
                                         int64_t value,
                                         napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: Integer value to be represented in JavaScript.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `BigInt`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API converts the C `int64_t` type to the JavaScript `BigInt` type.

##### `napi_create_bigint_uint64`#

Added in: v10.7.0 N-API version: 6

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_bigint_uint64(napi_env env,
                                          uint64_t value,
                                          napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: Unsigned integer value to be represented in JavaScript.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `BigInt`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API converts the C `uint64_t` type to the JavaScript `BigInt` type.

##### `napi_create_bigint_words`#

Added in: v10.7.0 N-API version: 6

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_bigint_words(napi_env env,
                                         int sign_bit,
                                         size_t word_count,
                                         const uint64_t* words,
                                         napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] sign_bit`: Determines if the resulting `BigInt` will be positive or negative.
  * `[in] word_count`: The length of the `words` array.
  * `[in] words`: An array of `uint64_t` little-endian 64-bit words.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `BigInt`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API converts an array of unsigned 64-bit words into a single `BigInt`
value.

The resulting `BigInt` is calculated as: (–1)`sign_bit` (`words[0]` × (264)0
\+ `words[1]` × (264)1 \+ …)

##### `napi_create_string_latin1`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_string_latin1(napi_env env,
                                          const char* str,
                                          size_t length,
                                          napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] str`: Character buffer representing an ISO-8859-1-encoded string.
  * `[in] length`: The length of the string in bytes, or `NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH` if it is null-terminated.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `string`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API creates a JavaScript `string` value from an ISO-8859-1-encoded C
string. The native string is copied.

The JavaScript `string` type is described in [Section
6.1.4](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-ecmascript-language-types-string-
type) of the ECMAScript Language Specification.

##### `node_api_create_external_string_latin1`#

Added in: v20.4.0, v18.18.0 N-API version: 10

    
    
    napi_status
    node_api_create_external_string_latin1(napi_env env,
                                           char* str,
                                           size_t length,
                                           napi_finalize finalize_callback,
                                           void* finalize_hint,
                                           napi_value* result,
                                           bool* copied); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] str`: Character buffer representing an ISO-8859-1-encoded string.
  * `[in] length`: The length of the string in bytes, or `NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH` if it is null-terminated.
  * `[in] finalize_callback`: The function to call when the string is being collected. The function will be called with the following parameters: 
    * `[in] env`: The environment in which the add-on is running. This value may be null if the string is being collected as part of the termination of the worker or the main Node.js instance.
    * `[in] data`: This is the value `str` as a `void*` pointer.
    * `[in] finalize_hint`: This is the value `finalize_hint` that was given to the API. `napi_finalize` provides more details. This parameter is optional. Passing a null value means that the add-on doesn't need to be notified when the corresponding JavaScript string is collected.
  * `[in] finalize_hint`: Optional hint to pass to the finalize callback during collection.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `string`.
  * `[out] copied`: Whether the string was copied. If it was, the finalizer will already have been invoked to destroy `str`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API creates a JavaScript `string` value from an ISO-8859-1-encoded C
string. The native string may not be copied and must thus exist for the entire
life cycle of the JavaScript value.

The JavaScript `string` type is described in [Section
6.1.4](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-ecmascript-language-types-string-
type) of the ECMAScript Language Specification.

##### `napi_create_string_utf16`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_string_utf16(napi_env env,
                                         const char16_t* str,
                                         size_t length,
                                         napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] str`: Character buffer representing a UTF16-LE-encoded string.
  * `[in] length`: The length of the string in two-byte code units, or `NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH` if it is null-terminated.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `string`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API creates a JavaScript `string` value from a UTF16-LE-encoded C string.
The native string is copied.

The JavaScript `string` type is described in [Section
6.1.4](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-ecmascript-language-types-string-
type) of the ECMAScript Language Specification.

##### `node_api_create_external_string_utf16`#

Added in: v20.4.0, v18.18.0 N-API version: 10

    
    
    napi_status
    node_api_create_external_string_utf16(napi_env env,
                                          char16_t* str,
                                          size_t length,
                                          napi_finalize finalize_callback,
                                          void* finalize_hint,
                                          napi_value* result,
                                          bool* copied); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] str`: Character buffer representing a UTF16-LE-encoded string.
  * `[in] length`: The length of the string in two-byte code units, or `NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH` if it is null-terminated.
  * `[in] finalize_callback`: The function to call when the string is being collected. The function will be called with the following parameters: 
    * `[in] env`: The environment in which the add-on is running. This value may be null if the string is being collected as part of the termination of the worker or the main Node.js instance.
    * `[in] data`: This is the value `str` as a `void*` pointer.
    * `[in] finalize_hint`: This is the value `finalize_hint` that was given to the API. `napi_finalize` provides more details. This parameter is optional. Passing a null value means that the add-on doesn't need to be notified when the corresponding JavaScript string is collected.
  * `[in] finalize_hint`: Optional hint to pass to the finalize callback during collection.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `string`.
  * `[out] copied`: Whether the string was copied. If it was, the finalizer will already have been invoked to destroy `str`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API creates a JavaScript `string` value from a UTF16-LE-encoded C string.
The native string may not be copied and must thus exist for the entire life
cycle of the JavaScript value.

The JavaScript `string` type is described in [Section
6.1.4](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-ecmascript-language-types-string-
type) of the ECMAScript Language Specification.

##### `napi_create_string_utf8`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_string_utf8(napi_env env,
                                        const char* str,
                                        size_t length,
                                        napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] str`: Character buffer representing a UTF8-encoded string.
  * `[in] length`: The length of the string in bytes, or `NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH` if it is null-terminated.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `string`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API creates a JavaScript `string` value from a UTF8-encoded C string. The
native string is copied.

The JavaScript `string` type is described in [Section
6.1.4](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-ecmascript-language-types-string-
type) of the ECMAScript Language Specification.

#### Functions to create optimized property keys#

Many JavaScript engines including V8 use internalized strings as keys to set
and get property values. They typically use a hash table to create and lookup
such strings. While it adds some cost per key creation, it improves the
performance after that by enabling comparison of string pointers instead of
the whole strings.

If a new JavaScript string is intended to be used as a property key, then for
some JavaScript engines it will be more efficient to use the functions in this
section. Otherwise, use the `napi_create_string_utf8` or
`node_api_create_external_string_utf8` series functions as there may be
additional overhead in creating/storing strings with the property key creation
methods.

##### `node_api_create_property_key_latin1`#

Added in: v22.9.0, v20.18.0 N-API version: 10

    
    
    napi_status NAPI_CDECL node_api_create_property_key_latin1(napi_env env,
                                                               const char* str,
                                                               size_t length,
                                                               napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] str`: Character buffer representing an ISO-8859-1-encoded string.
  * `[in] length`: The length of the string in bytes, or `NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH` if it is null-terminated.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing an optimized JavaScript `string` to be used as a property key for objects.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API creates an optimized JavaScript `string` value from an
ISO-8859-1-encoded C string to be used as a property key for objects. The
native string is copied. In contrast with `napi_create_string_latin1`,
subsequent calls to this function with the same `str` pointer may benefit from
a speedup in the creation of the requested `napi_value`, depending on the
engine.

The JavaScript `string` type is described in [Section
6.1.4](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-ecmascript-language-types-string-
type) of the ECMAScript Language Specification.

##### `node_api_create_property_key_utf16`#

Added in: v21.7.0, v20.12.0 N-API version: 10

    
    
    napi_status NAPI_CDECL node_api_create_property_key_utf16(napi_env env,
                                                              const char16_t* str,
                                                              size_t length,
                                                              napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] str`: Character buffer representing a UTF16-LE-encoded string.
  * `[in] length`: The length of the string in two-byte code units, or `NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH` if it is null-terminated.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing an optimized JavaScript `string` to be used as a property key for objects.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API creates an optimized JavaScript `string` value from a UTF16-LE-
encoded C string to be used as a property key for objects. The native string
is copied.

The JavaScript `string` type is described in [Section
6.1.4](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-ecmascript-language-types-string-
type) of the ECMAScript Language Specification.

##### `node_api_create_property_key_utf8`#

Added in: v22.9.0, v20.18.0 N-API version: 10

    
    
    napi_status NAPI_CDECL node_api_create_property_key_utf8(napi_env env,
                                                             const char* str,
                                                             size_t length,
                                                             napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] str`: Character buffer representing a UTF8-encoded string.
  * `[in] length`: The length of the string in two-byte code units, or `NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH` if it is null-terminated.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing an optimized JavaScript `string` to be used as a property key for objects.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API creates an optimized JavaScript `string` value from a UTF8-encoded C
string to be used as a property key for objects. The native string is copied.

The JavaScript `string` type is described in [Section
6.1.4](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-ecmascript-language-types-string-
type) of the ECMAScript Language Specification.

#### Functions to convert from Node-API to C types#

##### `napi_get_array_length`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_array_length(napi_env env,
                                      napi_value value,
                                      uint32_t* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: `napi_value` representing the JavaScript `Array` whose length is being queried.
  * `[out] result`: `uint32` representing length of the array.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API returns the length of an array.

`Array` length is described in [Section
22.1.4.1](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-properties-of-array-instances-
length) of the ECMAScript Language Specification.

##### `napi_get_arraybuffer_info`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_arraybuffer_info(napi_env env,
                                          napi_value arraybuffer,
                                          void** data,
                                          size_t* byte_length) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] arraybuffer`: `napi_value` representing the `ArrayBuffer` being queried.
  * `[out] data`: The underlying data buffer of the `ArrayBuffer`. If byte_length is `0`, this may be `NULL` or any other pointer value.
  * `[out] byte_length`: Length in bytes of the underlying data buffer.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API is used to retrieve the underlying data buffer of an `ArrayBuffer`
and its length.

_WARNING_ : Use caution while using this API. The lifetime of the underlying
data buffer is managed by the `ArrayBuffer` even after it's returned. A
possible safe way to use this API is in conjunction with
`napi_create_reference`, which can be used to guarantee control over the
lifetime of the `ArrayBuffer`. It's also safe to use the returned data buffer
within the same callback as long as there are no calls to other APIs that
might trigger a GC.

##### `napi_get_buffer_info`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_buffer_info(napi_env env,
                                     napi_value value,
                                     void** data,
                                     size_t* length) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: `napi_value` representing the `node::Buffer` or `Uint8Array` being queried.
  * `[out] data`: The underlying data buffer of the `node::Buffer` or `Uint8Array`. If length is `0`, this may be `NULL` or any other pointer value.
  * `[out] length`: Length in bytes of the underlying data buffer.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This method returns the identical `data` and `byte_length` as
`napi_get_typedarray_info`. And `napi_get_typedarray_info` accepts a
`node::Buffer` (a Uint8Array) as the value too.

This API is used to retrieve the underlying data buffer of a `node::Buffer`
and its length.

_Warning_ : Use caution while using this API since the underlying data
buffer's lifetime is not guaranteed if it's managed by the VM.

##### `napi_get_prototype`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_prototype(napi_env env,
                                   napi_value object,
                                   napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: `napi_value` representing JavaScript `Object` whose prototype to return. This returns the equivalent of `Object.getPrototypeOf` (which is not the same as the function's `prototype` property).
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing prototype of the given object.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

##### `napi_get_typedarray_info`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_typedarray_info(napi_env env,
                                         napi_value typedarray,
                                         napi_typedarray_type* type,
                                         size_t* length,
                                         void** data,
                                         napi_value* arraybuffer,
                                         size_t* byte_offset) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] typedarray`: `napi_value` representing the `TypedArray` whose properties to query.
  * `[out] type`: Scalar datatype of the elements within the `TypedArray`.
  * `[out] length`: The number of elements in the `TypedArray`.
  * `[out] data`: The data buffer underlying the `TypedArray` adjusted by the `byte_offset` value so that it points to the first element in the `TypedArray`. If the length of the array is `0`, this may be `NULL` or any other pointer value.
  * `[out] arraybuffer`: The `ArrayBuffer` underlying the `TypedArray`.
  * `[out] byte_offset`: The byte offset within the underlying native array at which the first element of the arrays is located. The value for the data parameter has already been adjusted so that data points to the first element in the array. Therefore, the first byte of the native array would be at `data - byte_offset`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API returns various properties of a typed array.

Any of the out parameters may be `NULL` if that property is unneeded.

_Warning_ : Use caution while using this API since the underlying data buffer
is managed by the VM.

##### `napi_get_dataview_info`#

Added in: v8.3.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_dataview_info(napi_env env,
                                       napi_value dataview,
                                       size_t* byte_length,
                                       void** data,
                                       napi_value* arraybuffer,
                                       size_t* byte_offset) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] dataview`: `napi_value` representing the `DataView` whose properties to query.
  * `[out] byte_length`: Number of bytes in the `DataView`.
  * `[out] data`: The data buffer underlying the `DataView`. If byte_length is `0`, this may be `NULL` or any other pointer value.
  * `[out] arraybuffer`: `ArrayBuffer` underlying the `DataView`.
  * `[out] byte_offset`: The byte offset within the data buffer from which to start projecting the `DataView`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

Any of the out parameters may be `NULL` if that property is unneeded.

This API returns various properties of a `DataView`.

##### `napi_get_date_value`#

Added in: v11.11.0, v10.17.0 N-API version: 5

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_date_value(napi_env env,
                                    napi_value value,
                                    double* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: `napi_value` representing a JavaScript `Date`.
  * `[out] result`: Time value as a `double` represented as milliseconds since midnight at the beginning of 01 January, 1970 UTC.

This API does not observe leap seconds; they are ignored, as ECMAScript aligns
with POSIX time specification.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded. If a non-date `napi_value` is passed
in it returns `napi_date_expected`.

This API returns the C double primitive of time value for the given JavaScript
`Date`.

##### `napi_get_value_bool`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_value_bool(napi_env env, napi_value value, bool* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: `napi_value` representing JavaScript `Boolean`.
  * `[out] result`: C boolean primitive equivalent of the given JavaScript `Boolean`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded. If a non-boolean `napi_value` is
passed in it returns `napi_boolean_expected`.

This API returns the C boolean primitive equivalent of the given JavaScript
`Boolean`.

##### `napi_get_value_double`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_value_double(napi_env env,
                                      napi_value value,
                                      double* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: `napi_value` representing JavaScript `number`.
  * `[out] result`: C double primitive equivalent of the given JavaScript `number`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded. If a non-number `napi_value` is passed
in it returns `napi_number_expected`.

This API returns the C double primitive equivalent of the given JavaScript
`number`.

##### `napi_get_value_bigint_int64`#

Added in: v10.7.0 N-API version: 6

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_value_bigint_int64(napi_env env,
                                            napi_value value,
                                            int64_t* result,
                                            bool* lossless); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under
  * `[in] value`: `napi_value` representing JavaScript `BigInt`.
  * `[out] result`: C `int64_t` primitive equivalent of the given JavaScript `BigInt`.
  * `[out] lossless`: Indicates whether the `BigInt` value was converted losslessly.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded. If a non-`BigInt` is passed in it
returns `napi_bigint_expected`.

This API returns the C `int64_t` primitive equivalent of the given JavaScript
`BigInt`. If needed it will truncate the value, setting `lossless` to `false`.

##### `napi_get_value_bigint_uint64`#

Added in: v10.7.0 N-API version: 6

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_value_bigint_uint64(napi_env env,
                                            napi_value value,
                                            uint64_t* result,
                                            bool* lossless); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: `napi_value` representing JavaScript `BigInt`.
  * `[out] result`: C `uint64_t` primitive equivalent of the given JavaScript `BigInt`.
  * `[out] lossless`: Indicates whether the `BigInt` value was converted losslessly.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded. If a non-`BigInt` is passed in it
returns `napi_bigint_expected`.

This API returns the C `uint64_t` primitive equivalent of the given JavaScript
`BigInt`. If needed it will truncate the value, setting `lossless` to `false`.

##### `napi_get_value_bigint_words`#

Added in: v10.7.0 N-API version: 6

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_value_bigint_words(napi_env env,
                                            napi_value value,
                                            int* sign_bit,
                                            size_t* word_count,
                                            uint64_t* words); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: `napi_value` representing JavaScript `BigInt`.
  * `[out] sign_bit`: Integer representing if the JavaScript `BigInt` is positive or negative.
  * `[in/out] word_count`: Must be initialized to the length of the `words` array. Upon return, it will be set to the actual number of words that would be needed to store this `BigInt`.
  * `[out] words`: Pointer to a pre-allocated 64-bit word array.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API converts a single `BigInt` value into a sign bit, 64-bit little-
endian array, and the number of elements in the array. `sign_bit` and `words`
may be both set to `NULL`, in order to get only `word_count`.

##### `napi_get_value_external`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_value_external(napi_env env,
                                        napi_value value,
                                        void** result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: `napi_value` representing JavaScript external value.
  * `[out] result`: Pointer to the data wrapped by the JavaScript external value.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded. If a non-external `napi_value` is
passed in it returns `napi_invalid_arg`.

This API retrieves the external data pointer that was previously passed to
`napi_create_external()`.

##### `napi_get_value_int32`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_value_int32(napi_env env,
                                     napi_value value,
                                     int32_t* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: `napi_value` representing JavaScript `number`.
  * `[out] result`: C `int32` primitive equivalent of the given JavaScript `number`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded. If a non-number `napi_value` is passed
in `napi_number_expected`.

This API returns the C `int32` primitive equivalent of the given JavaScript
`number`.

If the number exceeds the range of the 32 bit integer, then the result is
truncated to the equivalent of the bottom 32 bits. This can result in a large
positive number becoming a negative number if the value is > 231 \- 1.

Non-finite number values (`NaN`, `+Infinity`, or `-Infinity`) set the result
to zero.

##### `napi_get_value_int64`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_value_int64(napi_env env,
                                     napi_value value,
                                     int64_t* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: `napi_value` representing JavaScript `number`.
  * `[out] result`: C `int64` primitive equivalent of the given JavaScript `number`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded. If a non-number `napi_value` is passed
in it returns `napi_number_expected`.

This API returns the C `int64` primitive equivalent of the given JavaScript
`number`.

`number` values outside the range of
[`Number.MIN_SAFE_INTEGER`](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-
number.min_safe_integer) `-(2**53 - 1)` \-
[`Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER`](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-
number.max_safe_integer) `(2**53 - 1)` will lose precision.

Non-finite number values (`NaN`, `+Infinity`, or `-Infinity`) set the result
to zero.

##### `napi_get_value_string_latin1`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_value_string_latin1(napi_env env,
                                             napi_value value,
                                             char* buf,
                                             size_t bufsize,
                                             size_t* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: `napi_value` representing JavaScript string.
  * `[in] buf`: Buffer to write the ISO-8859-1-encoded string into. If `NULL` is passed in, the length of the string in bytes and excluding the null terminator is returned in `result`.
  * `[in] bufsize`: Size of the destination buffer. When this value is insufficient, the returned string is truncated and null-terminated.
  * `[out] result`: Number of bytes copied into the buffer, excluding the null terminator.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded. If a non-`string` `napi_value` is
passed in it returns `napi_string_expected`.

This API returns the ISO-8859-1-encoded string corresponding the value passed
in.

##### `napi_get_value_string_utf8`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_value_string_utf8(napi_env env,
                                           napi_value value,
                                           char* buf,
                                           size_t bufsize,
                                           size_t* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: `napi_value` representing JavaScript string.
  * `[in] buf`: Buffer to write the UTF8-encoded string into. If `NULL` is passed in, the length of the string in bytes and excluding the null terminator is returned in `result`.
  * `[in] bufsize`: Size of the destination buffer. When this value is insufficient, the returned string is truncated and null-terminated.
  * `[out] result`: Number of bytes copied into the buffer, excluding the null terminator.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded. If a non-`string` `napi_value` is
passed in it returns `napi_string_expected`.

This API returns the UTF8-encoded string corresponding the value passed in.

##### `napi_get_value_string_utf16`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_value_string_utf16(napi_env env,
                                            napi_value value,
                                            char16_t* buf,
                                            size_t bufsize,
                                            size_t* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: `napi_value` representing JavaScript string.
  * `[in] buf`: Buffer to write the UTF16-LE-encoded string into. If `NULL` is passed in, the length of the string in 2-byte code units and excluding the null terminator is returned.
  * `[in] bufsize`: Size of the destination buffer. When this value is insufficient, the returned string is truncated and null-terminated.
  * `[out] result`: Number of 2-byte code units copied into the buffer, excluding the null terminator.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded. If a non-`string` `napi_value` is
passed in it returns `napi_string_expected`.

This API returns the UTF16-encoded string corresponding the value passed in.

##### `napi_get_value_uint32`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_value_uint32(napi_env env,
                                      napi_value value,
                                      uint32_t* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: `napi_value` representing JavaScript `number`.
  * `[out] result`: C primitive equivalent of the given `napi_value` as a `uint32_t`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded. If a non-number `napi_value` is passed
in it returns `napi_number_expected`.

This API returns the C primitive equivalent of the given `napi_value` as a
`uint32_t`.

#### Functions to get global instances#

##### `napi_get_boolean`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_boolean(napi_env env, bool value, napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: The value of the boolean to retrieve.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing JavaScript `Boolean` singleton to retrieve.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API is used to return the JavaScript singleton object that is used to
represent the given boolean value.

##### `napi_get_global`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_global(napi_env env, napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing JavaScript `global` object.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API returns the `global` object.

##### `napi_get_null`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_null(napi_env env, napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing JavaScript `null` object.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API returns the `null` object.

##### `napi_get_undefined`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_undefined(napi_env env, napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing JavaScript Undefined value.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API returns the Undefined object.

### Working with JavaScript values and abstract operations#

Node-API exposes a set of APIs to perform some abstract operations on
JavaScript values. Some of these operations are documented under [Section
7](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-abstract-operations) of the [ECMAScript
Language Specification](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/).

These APIs support doing one of the following:

  1. Coerce JavaScript values to specific JavaScript types (such as `number` or `string`).
  2. Check the type of a JavaScript value.
  3. Check for equality between two JavaScript values.

#### `napi_coerce_to_bool`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_coerce_to_bool(napi_env env,
                                    napi_value value,
                                    napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: The JavaScript value to coerce.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing the coerced JavaScript `Boolean`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API implements the abstract operation `ToBoolean()` as defined in
[Section 7.1.2](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-toboolean) of the
ECMAScript Language Specification.

#### `napi_coerce_to_number`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_coerce_to_number(napi_env env,
                                      napi_value value,
                                      napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: The JavaScript value to coerce.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing the coerced JavaScript `number`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API implements the abstract operation `ToNumber()` as defined in [Section
7.1.3](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-tonumber) of the ECMAScript
Language Specification. This function potentially runs JS code if the passed-
in value is an object.

#### `napi_coerce_to_object`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_coerce_to_object(napi_env env,
                                      napi_value value,
                                      napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: The JavaScript value to coerce.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing the coerced JavaScript `Object`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API implements the abstract operation `ToObject()` as defined in [Section
7.1.13](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-toobject) of the ECMAScript
Language Specification.

#### `napi_coerce_to_string`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_coerce_to_string(napi_env env,
                                      napi_value value,
                                      napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: The JavaScript value to coerce.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing the coerced JavaScript `string`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API implements the abstract operation `ToString()` as defined in [Section
7.1.13](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-toobject) of the ECMAScript
Language Specification. This function potentially runs JS code if the passed-
in value is an object.

#### `napi_typeof`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_typeof(napi_env env, napi_value value, napi_valuetype* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: The JavaScript value whose type to query.
  * `[out] result`: The type of the JavaScript value.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

  * `napi_invalid_arg` if the type of `value` is not a known ECMAScript type and `value` is not an External value.

This API represents behavior similar to invoking the `typeof` Operator on the
object as defined in [Section 12.5.5](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-
typeof-operator) of the ECMAScript Language Specification. However, there are
some differences:

  1. It has support for detecting an External value.
  2. It detects `null` as a separate type, while ECMAScript `typeof` would detect `object`.

If `value` has a type that is invalid, an error is returned.

#### `napi_instanceof`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_instanceof(napi_env env,
                                napi_value object,
                                napi_value constructor,
                                bool* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The JavaScript value to check.
  * `[in] constructor`: The JavaScript function object of the constructor function to check against.
  * `[out] result`: Boolean that is set to true if `object instanceof constructor` is true.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API represents invoking the `instanceof` Operator on the object as
defined in [Section 12.10.4](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-
instanceofoperator) of the ECMAScript Language Specification.

#### `napi_is_array`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_is_array(napi_env env, napi_value value, bool* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: The JavaScript value to check.
  * `[out] result`: Whether the given object is an array.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API represents invoking the `IsArray` operation on the object as defined
in [Section 7.2.2](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-isarray) of the
ECMAScript Language Specification.

#### `napi_is_arraybuffer`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_is_arraybuffer(napi_env env, napi_value value, bool* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: The JavaScript value to check.
  * `[out] result`: Whether the given object is an `ArrayBuffer`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API checks if the `Object` passed in is an array buffer.

#### `napi_is_buffer`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_is_buffer(napi_env env, napi_value value, bool* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: The JavaScript value to check.
  * `[out] result`: Whether the given `napi_value` represents a `node::Buffer` or `Uint8Array` object.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API checks if the `Object` passed in is a buffer or Uint8Array.
`napi_is_typedarray` should be preferred if the caller needs to check if the
value is a Uint8Array.

#### `napi_is_date`#

Added in: v11.11.0, v10.17.0 N-API version: 5

    
    
    napi_status napi_is_date(napi_env env, napi_value value, bool* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: The JavaScript value to check.
  * `[out] result`: Whether the given `napi_value` represents a JavaScript `Date` object.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API checks if the `Object` passed in is a date.

#### `napi_is_error`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_is_error(napi_env env, napi_value value, bool* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: The JavaScript value to check.
  * `[out] result`: Whether the given `napi_value` represents an `Error` object.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API checks if the `Object` passed in is an `Error`.

#### `napi_is_typedarray`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_is_typedarray(napi_env env, napi_value value, bool* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: The JavaScript value to check.
  * `[out] result`: Whether the given `napi_value` represents a `TypedArray`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API checks if the `Object` passed in is a typed array.

#### `napi_is_dataview`#

Added in: v8.3.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_is_dataview(napi_env env, napi_value value, bool* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: The JavaScript value to check.
  * `[out] result`: Whether the given `napi_value` represents a `DataView`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API checks if the `Object` passed in is a `DataView`.

#### `napi_strict_equals`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_strict_equals(napi_env env,
                                   napi_value lhs,
                                   napi_value rhs,
                                   bool* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] lhs`: The JavaScript value to check.
  * `[in] rhs`: The JavaScript value to check against.
  * `[out] result`: Whether the two `napi_value` objects are equal.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API represents the invocation of the Strict Equality algorithm as defined
in [Section 7.2.14](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-strict-equality-
comparison) of the ECMAScript Language Specification.

#### `napi_detach_arraybuffer`#

Added in: v13.0.0, v12.16.0, v10.22.0 N-API version: 7

    
    
    napi_status napi_detach_arraybuffer(napi_env env,
                                        napi_value arraybuffer) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] arraybuffer`: The JavaScript `ArrayBuffer` to be detached.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded. If a non-detachable `ArrayBuffer` is
passed in it returns `napi_detachable_arraybuffer_expected`.

Generally, an `ArrayBuffer` is non-detachable if it has been detached before.
The engine may impose additional conditions on whether an `ArrayBuffer` is
detachable. For example, V8 requires that the `ArrayBuffer` be external, that
is, created with `napi_create_external_arraybuffer`.

This API represents the invocation of the `ArrayBuffer` detach operation as
defined in [Section 24.1.1.3](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-detacharraybuffer)
of the ECMAScript Language Specification.

#### `napi_is_detached_arraybuffer`#

Added in: v13.3.0, v12.16.0, v10.22.0 N-API version: 7

    
    
    napi_status napi_is_detached_arraybuffer(napi_env env,
                                             napi_value arraybuffer,
                                             bool* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] arraybuffer`: The JavaScript `ArrayBuffer` to be checked.
  * `[out] result`: Whether the `arraybuffer` is detached.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

The `ArrayBuffer` is considered detached if its internal data is `null`.

This API represents the invocation of the `ArrayBuffer` `IsDetachedBuffer`
operation as defined in [Section 24.1.1.2](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-
isdetachedbuffer) of the ECMAScript Language Specification.

### Working with JavaScript properties#

Node-API exposes a set of APIs to get and set properties on JavaScript
objects. Some of these types are documented under [Section
7](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-abstract-operations) of the [ECMAScript
Language Specification](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/).

Properties in JavaScript are represented as a tuple of a key and a value.
Fundamentally, all property keys in Node-API can be represented in one of the
following forms:

  * Named: a simple UTF8-encoded string
  * Integer-Indexed: an index value represented by `uint32_t`
  * JavaScript value: these are represented in Node-API by `napi_value`. This can be a `napi_value` representing a `string`, `number`, or `symbol`.

Node-API values are represented by the type `napi_value`. Any Node-API call
that requires a JavaScript value takes in a `napi_value`. However, it's the
caller's responsibility to make sure that the `napi_value` in question is of
the JavaScript type expected by the API.

The APIs documented in this section provide a simple interface to get and set
properties on arbitrary JavaScript objects represented by `napi_value`.

For instance, consider the following JavaScript code snippet:

    
    
    const obj = {};
    obj.myProp = 123; copy

The equivalent can be done using Node-API values with the following snippet:

    
    
    napi_status status = napi_generic_failure;
    
    // const obj = {}
    napi_value obj, value;
    status = napi_create_object(env, &obj);
    if (status != napi_ok) return status;
    
    // Create a napi_value for 123
    status = napi_create_int32(env, 123, &value);
    if (status != napi_ok) return status;
    
    // obj.myProp = 123
    status = napi_set_named_property(env, obj, "myProp", value);
    if (status != napi_ok) return status; copy

Indexed properties can be set in a similar manner. Consider the following
JavaScript snippet:

    
    
    const arr = [];
    arr[123] = 'hello'; copy

The equivalent can be done using Node-API values with the following snippet:

    
    
    napi_status status = napi_generic_failure;
    
    // const arr = [];
    napi_value arr, value;
    status = napi_create_array(env, &arr);
    if (status != napi_ok) return status;
    
    // Create a napi_value for 'hello'
    status = napi_create_string_utf8(env, "hello", NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH, &value);
    if (status != napi_ok) return status;
    
    // arr[123] = 'hello';
    status = napi_set_element(env, arr, 123, value);
    if (status != napi_ok) return status; copy

Properties can be retrieved using the APIs described in this section. Consider
the following JavaScript snippet:

    
    
    const arr = [];
    const value = arr[123]; copy

The following is the approximate equivalent of the Node-API counterpart:

    
    
    napi_status status = napi_generic_failure;
    
    // const arr = []
    napi_value arr, value;
    status = napi_create_array(env, &arr);
    if (status != napi_ok) return status;
    
    // const value = arr[123]
    status = napi_get_element(env, arr, 123, &value);
    if (status != napi_ok) return status; copy

Finally, multiple properties can also be defined on an object for performance
reasons. Consider the following JavaScript:

    
    
    const obj = {};
    Object.defineProperties(obj, {
      'foo': { value: 123, writable: true, configurable: true, enumerable: true },
      'bar': { value: 456, writable: true, configurable: true, enumerable: true },
    }); copy

The following is the approximate equivalent of the Node-API counterpart:

    
    
    napi_status status = napi_status_generic_failure;
    
    // const obj = {};
    napi_value obj;
    status = napi_create_object(env, &obj);
    if (status != napi_ok) return status;
    
    // Create napi_values for 123 and 456
    napi_value fooValue, barValue;
    status = napi_create_int32(env, 123, &fooValue);
    if (status != napi_ok) return status;
    status = napi_create_int32(env, 456, &barValue);
    if (status != napi_ok) return status;
    
    // Set the properties
    napi_property_descriptor descriptors[] = {
      { "foo", NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, fooValue, napi_writable | napi_configurable, NULL },
      { "bar", NULL, NULL, NULL, NULL, barValue, napi_writable | napi_configurable, NULL }
    }
    status = napi_define_properties(env,
                                    obj,
                                    sizeof(descriptors) / sizeof(descriptors[0]),
                                    descriptors);
    if (status != napi_ok) return status; copy

#### Structures#

##### `napi_property_attributes`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.12.0 | added `napi_default_method` and `napi_default_property`.  
      
    
    typedef enum {
      napi_default = 0,
      napi_writable = 1 << 0,
      napi_enumerable = 1 << 1,
      napi_configurable = 1 << 2,
    
      // Used with napi_define_class to distinguish static properties
      // from instance properties. Ignored by napi_define_properties.
      napi_static = 1 << 10,
    
      // Default for class methods.
      napi_default_method = napi_writable | napi_configurable,
    
      // Default for object properties, like in JS obj[prop].
      napi_default_jsproperty = napi_writable |
                              napi_enumerable |
                              napi_configurable,
    } napi_property_attributes; copy

`napi_property_attributes` are flags used to control the behavior of
properties set on a JavaScript object. Other than `napi_static` they
correspond to the attributes listed in [Section
6.1.7.1](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#table-2) of the [ECMAScript Language
Specification](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/). They can be one or more of
the following bitflags:

  * `napi_default`: No explicit attributes are set on the property. By default, a property is read only, not enumerable and not configurable.
  * `napi_writable`: The property is writable.
  * `napi_enumerable`: The property is enumerable.
  * `napi_configurable`: The property is configurable as defined in [Section 6.1.7.1](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#table-2) of the [ECMAScript Language Specification](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/).
  * `napi_static`: The property will be defined as a static property on a class as opposed to an instance property, which is the default. This is used only by `napi_define_class`. It is ignored by `napi_define_properties`.
  * `napi_default_method`: Like a method in a JS class, the property is configurable and writeable, but not enumerable.
  * `napi_default_jsproperty`: Like a property set via assignment in JavaScript, the property is writable, enumerable, and configurable.

##### `napi_property_descriptor`#

    
    
    typedef struct {
      // One of utf8name or name should be NULL.
      const char* utf8name;
      napi_value name;
    
      napi_callback method;
      napi_callback getter;
      napi_callback setter;
      napi_value value;
    
      napi_property_attributes attributes;
      void* data;
    } napi_property_descriptor; copy

  * `utf8name`: Optional string describing the key for the property, encoded as UTF8. One of `utf8name` or `name` must be provided for the property.
  * `name`: Optional `napi_value` that points to a JavaScript string or symbol to be used as the key for the property. One of `utf8name` or `name` must be provided for the property.
  * `value`: The value that's retrieved by a get access of the property if the property is a data property. If this is passed in, set `getter`, `setter`, `method` and `data` to `NULL` (since these members won't be used).
  * `getter`: A function to call when a get access of the property is performed. If this is passed in, set `value` and `method` to `NULL` (since these members won't be used). The given function is called implicitly by the runtime when the property is accessed from JavaScript code (or if a get on the property is performed using a Node-API call). `napi_callback` provides more details.
  * `setter`: A function to call when a set access of the property is performed. If this is passed in, set `value` and `method` to `NULL` (since these members won't be used). The given function is called implicitly by the runtime when the property is set from JavaScript code (or if a set on the property is performed using a Node-API call). `napi_callback` provides more details.
  * `method`: Set this to make the property descriptor object's `value` property to be a JavaScript function represented by `method`. If this is passed in, set `value`, `getter` and `setter` to `NULL` (since these members won't be used). `napi_callback` provides more details.
  * `attributes`: The attributes associated with the particular property. See `napi_property_attributes`.
  * `data`: The callback data passed into `method`, `getter` and `setter` if this function is invoked.

#### Functions#

##### `napi_get_property_names`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_property_names(napi_env env,
                                        napi_value object,
                                        napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The object from which to retrieve the properties.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing an array of JavaScript values that represent the property names of the object. The API can be used to iterate over `result` using `napi_get_array_length` and `napi_get_element`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API returns the names of the enumerable properties of `object` as an
array of strings. The properties of `object` whose key is a symbol will not be
included.

##### `napi_get_all_property_names`#

Added in: v13.7.0, v12.17.0, v10.20.0 N-API version: 6

    
    
    napi_get_all_property_names(napi_env env,
                                napi_value object,
                                napi_key_collection_mode key_mode,
                                napi_key_filter key_filter,
                                napi_key_conversion key_conversion,
                                napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The object from which to retrieve the properties.
  * `[in] key_mode`: Whether to retrieve prototype properties as well.
  * `[in] key_filter`: Which properties to retrieve (enumerable/readable/writable).
  * `[in] key_conversion`: Whether to convert numbered property keys to strings.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing an array of JavaScript values that represent the property names of the object. `napi_get_array_length` and `napi_get_element` can be used to iterate over `result`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API returns an array containing the names of the available properties of
this object.

##### `napi_set_property`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_set_property(napi_env env,
                                  napi_value object,
                                  napi_value key,
                                  napi_value value); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The object on which to set the property.
  * `[in] key`: The name of the property to set.
  * `[in] value`: The property value.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API set a property on the `Object` passed in.

##### `napi_get_property`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_property(napi_env env,
                                  napi_value object,
                                  napi_value key,
                                  napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The object from which to retrieve the property.
  * `[in] key`: The name of the property to retrieve.
  * `[out] result`: The value of the property.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API gets the requested property from the `Object` passed in.

##### `napi_has_property`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_has_property(napi_env env,
                                  napi_value object,
                                  napi_value key,
                                  bool* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The object to query.
  * `[in] key`: The name of the property whose existence to check.
  * `[out] result`: Whether the property exists on the object or not.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API checks if the `Object` passed in has the named property.

##### `napi_delete_property`#

Added in: v8.2.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_delete_property(napi_env env,
                                     napi_value object,
                                     napi_value key,
                                     bool* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The object to query.
  * `[in] key`: The name of the property to delete.
  * `[out] result`: Whether the property deletion succeeded or not. `result` can optionally be ignored by passing `NULL`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API attempts to delete the `key` own property from `object`.

##### `napi_has_own_property`#

Added in: v8.2.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_has_own_property(napi_env env,
                                      napi_value object,
                                      napi_value key,
                                      bool* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The object to query.
  * `[in] key`: The name of the own property whose existence to check.
  * `[out] result`: Whether the own property exists on the object or not.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API checks if the `Object` passed in has the named own property. `key`
must be a `string` or a `symbol`, or an error will be thrown. Node-API will
not perform any conversion between data types.

##### `napi_set_named_property`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_set_named_property(napi_env env,
                                        napi_value object,
                                        const char* utf8Name,
                                        napi_value value); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The object on which to set the property.
  * `[in] utf8Name`: The name of the property to set.
  * `[in] value`: The property value.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This method is equivalent to calling `napi_set_property` with a `napi_value`
created from the string passed in as `utf8Name`.

##### `napi_get_named_property`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_named_property(napi_env env,
                                        napi_value object,
                                        const char* utf8Name,
                                        napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The object from which to retrieve the property.
  * `[in] utf8Name`: The name of the property to get.
  * `[out] result`: The value of the property.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This method is equivalent to calling `napi_get_property` with a `napi_value`
created from the string passed in as `utf8Name`.

##### `napi_has_named_property`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_has_named_property(napi_env env,
                                        napi_value object,
                                        const char* utf8Name,
                                        bool* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The object to query.
  * `[in] utf8Name`: The name of the property whose existence to check.
  * `[out] result`: Whether the property exists on the object or not.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This method is equivalent to calling `napi_has_property` with a `napi_value`
created from the string passed in as `utf8Name`.

##### `napi_set_element`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_set_element(napi_env env,
                                 napi_value object,
                                 uint32_t index,
                                 napi_value value); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The object from which to set the properties.
  * `[in] index`: The index of the property to set.
  * `[in] value`: The property value.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API sets an element on the `Object` passed in.

##### `napi_get_element`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_element(napi_env env,
                                 napi_value object,
                                 uint32_t index,
                                 napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The object from which to retrieve the property.
  * `[in] index`: The index of the property to get.
  * `[out] result`: The value of the property.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API gets the element at the requested index.

##### `napi_has_element`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_has_element(napi_env env,
                                 napi_value object,
                                 uint32_t index,
                                 bool* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The object to query.
  * `[in] index`: The index of the property whose existence to check.
  * `[out] result`: Whether the property exists on the object or not.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API returns if the `Object` passed in has an element at the requested
index.

##### `napi_delete_element`#

Added in: v8.2.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_delete_element(napi_env env,
                                    napi_value object,
                                    uint32_t index,
                                    bool* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The object to query.
  * `[in] index`: The index of the property to delete.
  * `[out] result`: Whether the element deletion succeeded or not. `result` can optionally be ignored by passing `NULL`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API attempts to delete the specified `index` from `object`.

##### `napi_define_properties`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_define_properties(napi_env env,
                                       napi_value object,
                                       size_t property_count,
                                       const napi_property_descriptor* properties); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The object from which to retrieve the properties.
  * `[in] property_count`: The number of elements in the `properties` array.
  * `[in] properties`: The array of property descriptors.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This method allows the efficient definition of multiple properties on a given
object. The properties are defined using property descriptors (see
`napi_property_descriptor`). Given an array of such property descriptors, this
API will set the properties on the object one at a time, as defined by
`DefineOwnProperty()` (described in [Section
9.1.6](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-ordinary-object-internal-methods-
and-internal-slots-defineownproperty-p-desc) of the ECMA-262 specification).

##### `napi_object_freeze`#

Added in: v14.14.0, v12.20.0 N-API version: 8

    
    
    napi_status napi_object_freeze(napi_env env,
                                   napi_value object); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The object to freeze.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This method freezes a given object. This prevents new properties from being
added to it, existing properties from being removed, prevents changing the
enumerability, configurability, or writability of existing properties, and
prevents the values of existing properties from being changed. It also
prevents the object's prototype from being changed. This is described in
[Section 19.1.2.6](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-object.freeze) of the ECMA-262
specification.

##### `napi_object_seal`#

Added in: v14.14.0, v12.20.0 N-API version: 8

    
    
    napi_status napi_object_seal(napi_env env,
                                 napi_value object); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the Node-API call is invoked under.
  * `[in] object`: The object to seal.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This method seals a given object. This prevents new properties from being
added to it, as well as marking all existing properties as non-configurable.
This is described in [Section 19.1.2.20](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-
object.seal) of the ECMA-262 specification.

### Working with JavaScript functions#

Node-API provides a set of APIs that allow JavaScript code to call back into
native code. Node-APIs that support calling back into native code take in a
callback functions represented by the `napi_callback` type. When the
JavaScript VM calls back to native code, the `napi_callback` function provided
is invoked. The APIs documented in this section allow the callback function to
do the following:

  * Get information about the context in which the callback was invoked.
  * Get the arguments passed into the callback.
  * Return a `napi_value` back from the callback.

Additionally, Node-API provides a set of functions which allow calling
JavaScript functions from native code. One can either call a function like a
regular JavaScript function call, or as a constructor function.

Any non-`NULL` data which is passed to this API via the `data` field of the
`napi_property_descriptor` items can be associated with `object` and freed
whenever `object` is garbage-collected by passing both `object` and the data
to `napi_add_finalizer`.

#### `napi_call_function`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_call_function(napi_env env,
                                               napi_value recv,
                                               napi_value func,
                                               size_t argc,
                                               const napi_value* argv,
                                               napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] recv`: The `this` value passed to the called function.
  * `[in] func`: `napi_value` representing the JavaScript function to be invoked.
  * `[in] argc`: The count of elements in the `argv` array.
  * `[in] argv`: Array of `napi_values` representing JavaScript values passed in as arguments to the function.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing the JavaScript object returned.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This method allows a JavaScript function object to be called from a native
add-on. This is the primary mechanism of calling back _from_ the add-on's
native code _into_ JavaScript. For the special case of calling into JavaScript
after an async operation, see `napi_make_callback`.

A sample use case might look as follows. Consider the following JavaScript
snippet:

    
    
    function AddTwo(num) {
      return num + 2;
    }
    global.AddTwo = AddTwo; copy

Then, the above function can be invoked from a native add-on using the
following code:

    
    
    // Get the function named "AddTwo" on the global object
    napi_value global, add_two, arg;
    napi_status status = napi_get_global(env, &global);
    if (status != napi_ok) return;
    
    status = napi_get_named_property(env, global, "AddTwo", &add_two);
    if (status != napi_ok) return;
    
    // const arg = 1337
    status = napi_create_int32(env, 1337, &arg);
    if (status != napi_ok) return;
    
    napi_value* argv = &arg;
    size_t argc = 1;
    
    // AddTwo(arg);
    napi_value return_val;
    status = napi_call_function(env, global, add_two, argc, argv, &return_val);
    if (status != napi_ok) return;
    
    // Convert the result back to a native type
    int32_t result;
    status = napi_get_value_int32(env, return_val, &result);
    if (status != napi_ok) return; copy

#### `napi_create_function`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_function(napi_env env,
                                     const char* utf8name,
                                     size_t length,
                                     napi_callback cb,
                                     void* data,
                                     napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] utf8Name`: Optional name of the function encoded as UTF8. This is visible within JavaScript as the new function object's `name` property.
  * `[in] length`: The length of the `utf8name` in bytes, or `NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH` if it is null-terminated.
  * `[in] cb`: The native function which should be called when this function object is invoked. `napi_callback` provides more details.
  * `[in] data`: User-provided data context. This will be passed back into the function when invoked later.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing the JavaScript function object for the newly created function.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API allows an add-on author to create a function object in native code.
This is the primary mechanism to allow calling _into_ the add-on's native code
_from_ JavaScript.

The newly created function is not automatically visible from script after this
call. Instead, a property must be explicitly set on any object that is visible
to JavaScript, in order for the function to be accessible from script.

In order to expose a function as part of the add-on's module exports, set the
newly created function on the exports object. A sample module might look as
follows:

    
    
    napi_value SayHello(napi_env env, napi_callback_info info) {
      printf("Hello\n");
      return NULL;
    }
    
    napi_value Init(napi_env env, napi_value exports) {
      napi_status status;
    
      napi_value fn;
      status = napi_create_function(env, NULL, 0, SayHello, NULL, &fn);
      if (status != napi_ok) return NULL;
    
      status = napi_set_named_property(env, exports, "sayHello", fn);
      if (status != napi_ok) return NULL;
    
      return exports;
    }
    
    NAPI_MODULE(NODE_GYP_MODULE_NAME, Init) copy

Given the above code, the add-on can be used from JavaScript as follows:

    
    
    const myaddon = require('./addon');
    myaddon.sayHello(); copy

The string passed to `require()` is the name of the target in `binding.gyp`
responsible for creating the `.node` file.

Any non-`NULL` data which is passed to this API via the `data` parameter can
be associated with the resulting JavaScript function (which is returned in the
`result` parameter) and freed whenever the function is garbage-collected by
passing both the JavaScript function and the data to `napi_add_finalizer`.

JavaScript `Function`s are described in [Section
19.2](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-function-objects) of the ECMAScript
Language Specification.

#### `napi_get_cb_info`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_cb_info(napi_env env,
                                 napi_callback_info cbinfo,
                                 size_t* argc,
                                 napi_value* argv,
                                 napi_value* thisArg,
                                 void** data) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] cbinfo`: The callback info passed into the callback function.
  * `[in-out] argc`: Specifies the length of the provided `argv` array and receives the actual count of arguments. `argc` can optionally be ignored by passing `NULL`.
  * `[out] argv`: C array of `napi_value`s to which the arguments will be copied. If there are more arguments than the provided count, only the requested number of arguments are copied. If there are fewer arguments provided than claimed, the rest of `argv` is filled with `napi_value` values that represent `undefined`. `argv` can optionally be ignored by passing `NULL`.
  * `[out] thisArg`: Receives the JavaScript `this` argument for the call. `thisArg` can optionally be ignored by passing `NULL`.
  * `[out] data`: Receives the data pointer for the callback. `data` can optionally be ignored by passing `NULL`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This method is used within a callback function to retrieve details about the
call like the arguments and the `this` pointer from a given callback info.

#### `napi_get_new_target`#

Added in: v8.6.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_new_target(napi_env env,
                                    napi_callback_info cbinfo,
                                    napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] cbinfo`: The callback info passed into the callback function.
  * `[out] result`: The `new.target` of the constructor call.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API returns the `new.target` of the constructor call. If the current
callback is not a constructor call, the result is `NULL`.

#### `napi_new_instance`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_new_instance(napi_env env,
                                  napi_value cons,
                                  size_t argc,
                                  napi_value* argv,
                                  napi_value* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] cons`: `napi_value` representing the JavaScript function to be invoked as a constructor.
  * `[in] argc`: The count of elements in the `argv` array.
  * `[in] argv`: Array of JavaScript values as `napi_value` representing the arguments to the constructor. If `argc` is zero this parameter may be omitted by passing in `NULL`.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing the JavaScript object returned, which in this case is the constructed object.

This method is used to instantiate a new JavaScript value using a given
`napi_value` that represents the constructor for the object. For example,
consider the following snippet:

    
    
    function MyObject(param) {
      this.param = param;
    }
    
    const arg = 'hello';
    const value = new MyObject(arg); copy

The following can be approximated in Node-API using the following snippet:

    
    
    // Get the constructor function MyObject
    napi_value global, constructor, arg, value;
    napi_status status = napi_get_global(env, &global);
    if (status != napi_ok) return;
    
    status = napi_get_named_property(env, global, "MyObject", &constructor);
    if (status != napi_ok) return;
    
    // const arg = "hello"
    status = napi_create_string_utf8(env, "hello", NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH, &arg);
    if (status != napi_ok) return;
    
    napi_value* argv = &arg;
    size_t argc = 1;
    
    // const value = new MyObject(arg)
    status = napi_new_instance(env, constructor, argc, argv, &value); copy

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

### Object wrap#

Node-API offers a way to "wrap" C++ classes and instances so that the class
constructor and methods can be called from JavaScript.

  1. The `napi_define_class` API defines a JavaScript class with constructor, static properties and methods, and instance properties and methods that correspond to the C++ class.
  2. When JavaScript code invokes the constructor, the constructor callback uses `napi_wrap` to wrap a new C++ instance in a JavaScript object, then returns the wrapper object.
  3. When JavaScript code invokes a method or property accessor on the class, the corresponding `napi_callback` C++ function is invoked. For an instance callback, `napi_unwrap` obtains the C++ instance that is the target of the call.

For wrapped objects it may be difficult to distinguish between a function
called on a class prototype and a function called on an instance of a class. A
common pattern used to address this problem is to save a persistent reference
to the class constructor for later `instanceof` checks.

    
    
    napi_value MyClass_constructor = NULL;
    status = napi_get_reference_value(env, MyClass::es_constructor, &MyClass_constructor);
    assert(napi_ok == status);
    bool is_instance = false;
    status = napi_instanceof(env, es_this, MyClass_constructor, &is_instance);
    assert(napi_ok == status);
    if (is_instance) {
      // napi_unwrap() ...
    } else {
      // otherwise...
    } copy

The reference must be freed once it is no longer needed.

There are occasions where `napi_instanceof()` is insufficient for ensuring
that a JavaScript object is a wrapper for a certain native type. This is the
case especially when wrapped JavaScript objects are passed back into the addon
via static methods rather than as the `this` value of prototype methods. In
such cases there is a chance that they may be unwrapped incorrectly.

    
    
    const myAddon = require('./build/Release/my_addon.node');
    
    // `openDatabase()` returns a JavaScript object that wraps a native database
    // handle.
    const dbHandle = myAddon.openDatabase();
    
    // `query()` returns a JavaScript object that wraps a native query handle.
    const queryHandle = myAddon.query(dbHandle, 'Gimme ALL the things!');
    
    // There is an accidental error in the line below. The first parameter to
    // `myAddon.queryHasRecords()` should be the database handle (`dbHandle`), not
    // the query handle (`query`), so the correct condition for the while-loop
    // should be
    //
    // myAddon.queryHasRecords(dbHandle, queryHandle)
    //
    while (myAddon.queryHasRecords(queryHandle, dbHandle)) {
      // retrieve records
    } copy

In the above example `myAddon.queryHasRecords()` is a method that accepts two
arguments. The first is a database handle and the second is a query handle.
Internally, it unwraps the first argument and casts the resulting pointer to a
native database handle. It then unwraps the second argument and casts the
resulting pointer to a query handle. If the arguments are passed in the wrong
order, the casts will work, however, there is a good chance that the
underlying database operation will fail, or will even cause an invalid memory
access.

To ensure that the pointer retrieved from the first argument is indeed a
pointer to a database handle and, similarly, that the pointer retrieved from
the second argument is indeed a pointer to a query handle, the implementation
of `queryHasRecords()` has to perform a type validation. Retaining the
JavaScript class constructor from which the database handle was instantiated
and the constructor from which the query handle was instantiated in
`napi_ref`s can help, because `napi_instanceof()` can then be used to ensure
that the instances passed into `queryHashRecords()` are indeed of the correct
type.

Unfortunately, `napi_instanceof()` does not protect against prototype
manipulation. For example, the prototype of the database handle instance can
be set to the prototype of the constructor for query handle instances. In this
case, the database handle instance can appear as a query handle instance, and
it will pass the `napi_instanceof()` test for a query handle instance, while
still containing a pointer to a database handle.

To this end, Node-API provides type-tagging capabilities.

A type tag is a 128-bit integer unique to the addon. Node-API provides the
`napi_type_tag` structure for storing a type tag. When such a value is passed
along with a JavaScript object or external stored in a `napi_value` to
`napi_type_tag_object()`, the JavaScript object will be "marked" with the type
tag. The "mark" is invisible on the JavaScript side. When a JavaScript object
arrives into a native binding, `napi_check_object_type_tag()` can be used
along with the original type tag to determine whether the JavaScript object
was previously "marked" with the type tag. This creates a type-checking
capability of a higher fidelity than `napi_instanceof()` can provide, because
such type- tagging survives prototype manipulation and addon
unloading/reloading.

Continuing the above example, the following skeleton addon implementation
illustrates the use of `napi_type_tag_object()` and
`napi_check_object_type_tag()`.

    
    
    // This value is the type tag for a database handle. The command
    //
    //   uuidgen | sed -r -e 's/-//g' -e 's/(.{16})(.*)/0x\1, 0x\2/'
    //
    // can be used to obtain the two values with which to initialize the structure.
    static const napi_type_tag DatabaseHandleTypeTag = {
      0x1edf75a38336451d, 0xa5ed9ce2e4c00c38
    };
    
    // This value is the type tag for a query handle.
    static const napi_type_tag QueryHandleTypeTag = {
      0x9c73317f9fad44a3, 0x93c3920bf3b0ad6a
    };
    
    static napi_value
    openDatabase(napi_env env, napi_callback_info info) {
      napi_status status;
      napi_value result;
    
      // Perform the underlying action which results in a database handle.
      DatabaseHandle* dbHandle = open_database();
    
      // Create a new, empty JS object.
      status = napi_create_object(env, &result);
      if (status != napi_ok) return NULL;
    
      // Tag the object to indicate that it holds a pointer to a `DatabaseHandle`.
      status = napi_type_tag_object(env, result, &DatabaseHandleTypeTag);
      if (status != napi_ok) return NULL;
    
      // Store the pointer to the `DatabaseHandle` structure inside the JS object.
      status = napi_wrap(env, result, dbHandle, NULL, NULL, NULL);
      if (status != napi_ok) return NULL;
    
      return result;
    }
    
    // Later when we receive a JavaScript object purporting to be a database handle
    // we can use `napi_check_object_type_tag()` to ensure that it is indeed such a
    // handle.
    
    static napi_value
    query(napi_env env, napi_callback_info info) {
      napi_status status;
      size_t argc = 2;
      napi_value argv[2];
      bool is_db_handle;
    
      status = napi_get_cb_info(env, info, &argc, argv, NULL, NULL);
      if (status != napi_ok) return NULL;
    
      // Check that the object passed as the first parameter has the previously
      // applied tag.
      status = napi_check_object_type_tag(env,
                                          argv[0],
                                          &DatabaseHandleTypeTag,
                                          &is_db_handle);
      if (status != napi_ok) return NULL;
    
      // Throw a `TypeError` if it doesn't.
      if (!is_db_handle) {
        // Throw a TypeError.
        return NULL;
      }
    } copy

#### `napi_define_class`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_define_class(napi_env env,
                                  const char* utf8name,
                                  size_t length,
                                  napi_callback constructor,
                                  void* data,
                                  size_t property_count,
                                  const napi_property_descriptor* properties,
                                  napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] utf8name`: Name of the JavaScript constructor function. For clarity, it is recommended to use the C++ class name when wrapping a C++ class.
  * `[in] length`: The length of the `utf8name` in bytes, or `NAPI_AUTO_LENGTH` if it is null-terminated.
  * `[in] constructor`: Callback function that handles constructing instances of the class. When wrapping a C++ class, this method must be a static member with the `napi_callback` signature. A C++ class constructor cannot be used. `napi_callback` provides more details.
  * `[in] data`: Optional data to be passed to the constructor callback as the `data` property of the callback info.
  * `[in] property_count`: Number of items in the `properties` array argument.
  * `[in] properties`: Array of property descriptors describing static and instance data properties, accessors, and methods on the class See `napi_property_descriptor`.
  * `[out] result`: A `napi_value` representing the constructor function for the class.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

Defines a JavaScript class, including:

  * A JavaScript constructor function that has the class name. When wrapping a corresponding C++ class, the callback passed via `constructor` can be used to instantiate a new C++ class instance, which can then be placed inside the JavaScript object instance being constructed using `napi_wrap`.
  * Properties on the constructor function whose implementation can call corresponding _static_ data properties, accessors, and methods of the C++ class (defined by property descriptors with the `napi_static` attribute).
  * Properties on the constructor function's `prototype` object. When wrapping a C++ class, _non-static_ data properties, accessors, and methods of the C++ class can be called from the static functions given in the property descriptors without the `napi_static` attribute after retrieving the C++ class instance placed inside the JavaScript object instance by using `napi_unwrap`.

When wrapping a C++ class, the C++ constructor callback passed via
`constructor` should be a static method on the class that calls the actual
class constructor, then wraps the new C++ instance in a JavaScript object, and
returns the wrapper object. See `napi_wrap` for details.

The JavaScript constructor function returned from `napi_define_class` is often
saved and used later to construct new instances of the class from native code,
and/or to check whether provided values are instances of the class. In that
case, to prevent the function value from being garbage-collected, a strong
persistent reference to it can be created using `napi_create_reference`,
ensuring that the reference count is kept >= 1.

Any non-`NULL` data which is passed to this API via the `data` parameter or
via the `data` field of the `napi_property_descriptor` array items can be
associated with the resulting JavaScript constructor (which is returned in the
`result` parameter) and freed whenever the class is garbage-collected by
passing both the JavaScript function and the data to `napi_add_finalizer`.

#### `napi_wrap`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_wrap(napi_env env,
                          napi_value js_object,
                          void* native_object,
                          napi_finalize finalize_cb,
                          void* finalize_hint,
                          napi_ref* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] js_object`: The JavaScript object that will be the wrapper for the native object.
  * `[in] native_object`: The native instance that will be wrapped in the JavaScript object.
  * `[in] finalize_cb`: Optional native callback that can be used to free the native instance when the JavaScript object has been garbage-collected. `napi_finalize` provides more details.
  * `[in] finalize_hint`: Optional contextual hint that is passed to the finalize callback.
  * `[out] result`: Optional reference to the wrapped object.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

Wraps a native instance in a JavaScript object. The native instance can be
retrieved later using `napi_unwrap()`.

When JavaScript code invokes a constructor for a class that was defined using
`napi_define_class()`, the `napi_callback` for the constructor is invoked.
After constructing an instance of the native class, the callback must then
call `napi_wrap()` to wrap the newly constructed instance in the already-
created JavaScript object that is the `this` argument to the constructor
callback. (That `this` object was created from the constructor function's
`prototype`, so it already has definitions of all the instance properties and
methods.)

Typically when wrapping a class instance, a finalize callback should be
provided that simply deletes the native instance that is received as the
`data` argument to the finalize callback.

The optional returned reference is initially a weak reference, meaning it has
a reference count of 0. Typically this reference count would be incremented
temporarily during async operations that require the instance to remain valid.

_Caution_ : The optional returned reference (if obtained) should be deleted
via `napi_delete_reference` ONLY in response to the finalize callback
invocation. If it is deleted before then, then the finalize callback may never
be invoked. Therefore, when obtaining a reference a finalize callback is also
required in order to enable correct disposal of the reference.

Finalizer callbacks may be deferred, leaving a window where the object has
been garbage collected (and the weak reference is invalid) but the finalizer
hasn't been called yet. When using `napi_get_reference_value()` on weak
references returned by `napi_wrap()`, you should still handle an empty result.

Calling `napi_wrap()` a second time on an object will return an error. To
associate another native instance with the object, use `napi_remove_wrap()`
first.

#### `napi_unwrap`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_unwrap(napi_env env,
                            napi_value js_object,
                            void** result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] js_object`: The object associated with the native instance.
  * `[out] result`: Pointer to the wrapped native instance.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

Retrieves a native instance that was previously wrapped in a JavaScript object
using `napi_wrap()`.

When JavaScript code invokes a method or property accessor on the class, the
corresponding `napi_callback` is invoked. If the callback is for an instance
method or accessor, then the `this` argument to the callback is the wrapper
object; the wrapped C++ instance that is the target of the call can be
obtained then by calling `napi_unwrap()` on the wrapper object.

#### `napi_remove_wrap`#

Added in: v8.5.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_remove_wrap(napi_env env,
                                 napi_value js_object,
                                 void** result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] js_object`: The object associated with the native instance.
  * `[out] result`: Pointer to the wrapped native instance.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

Retrieves a native instance that was previously wrapped in the JavaScript
object `js_object` using `napi_wrap()` and removes the wrapping. If a finalize
callback was associated with the wrapping, it will no longer be called when
the JavaScript object becomes garbage-collected.

#### `napi_type_tag_object`#

Added in: v14.8.0, v12.19.0 N-API version: 8

    
    
    napi_status napi_type_tag_object(napi_env env,
                                     napi_value js_object,
                                     const napi_type_tag* type_tag); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] js_object`: The JavaScript object or external to be marked.
  * `[in] type_tag`: The tag with which the object is to be marked.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

Associates the value of the `type_tag` pointer with the JavaScript object or
external. `napi_check_object_type_tag()` can then be used to compare the tag
that was attached to the object with one owned by the addon to ensure that the
object has the right type.

If the object already has an associated type tag, this API will return
`napi_invalid_arg`.

#### `napi_check_object_type_tag`#

Added in: v14.8.0, v12.19.0 N-API version: 8

    
    
    napi_status napi_check_object_type_tag(napi_env env,
                                           napi_value js_object,
                                           const napi_type_tag* type_tag,
                                           bool* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] js_object`: The JavaScript object or external whose type tag to examine.
  * `[in] type_tag`: The tag with which to compare any tag found on the object.
  * `[out] result`: Whether the type tag given matched the type tag on the object. `false` is also returned if no type tag was found on the object.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

Compares the pointer given as `type_tag` with any that can be found on
`js_object`. If no tag is found on `js_object` or, if a tag is found but it
does not match `type_tag`, then `result` is set to `false`. If a tag is found
and it matches `type_tag`, then `result` is set to `true`.

#### `napi_add_finalizer`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 5

    
    
    napi_status napi_add_finalizer(napi_env env,
                                   napi_value js_object,
                                   void* finalize_data,
                                   node_api_basic_finalize finalize_cb,
                                   void* finalize_hint,
                                   napi_ref* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] js_object`: The JavaScript object to which the native data will be attached.
  * `[in] finalize_data`: Optional data to be passed to `finalize_cb`.
  * `[in] finalize_cb`: Native callback that will be used to free the native data when the JavaScript object has been garbage-collected. `napi_finalize` provides more details.
  * `[in] finalize_hint`: Optional contextual hint that is passed to the finalize callback.
  * `[out] result`: Optional reference to the JavaScript object.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

Adds a `napi_finalize` callback which will be called when the JavaScript
object in `js_object` has been garbage-collected.

This API can be called multiple times on a single JavaScript object.

_Caution_ : The optional returned reference (if obtained) should be deleted
via `napi_delete_reference` ONLY in response to the finalize callback
invocation. If it is deleted before then, then the finalize callback may never
be invoked. Therefore, when obtaining a reference a finalize callback is also
required in order to enable correct disposal of the reference.

##### `node_api_post_finalizer`#

Added in: v21.0.0, v20.10.0, v18.19.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

    
    
    napi_status node_api_post_finalizer(node_api_basic_env env,
                                        napi_finalize finalize_cb,
                                        void* finalize_data,
                                        void* finalize_hint); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] finalize_cb`: Native callback that will be used to free the native data when the JavaScript object has been garbage-collected. `napi_finalize` provides more details.
  * `[in] finalize_data`: Optional data to be passed to `finalize_cb`.
  * `[in] finalize_hint`: Optional contextual hint that is passed to the finalize callback.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

Schedules a `napi_finalize` callback to be called asynchronously in the event
loop.

Normally, finalizers are called while the GC (garbage collector) collects
objects. At that point calling any Node-API that may cause changes in the GC
state will be disabled and will crash Node.js.

`node_api_post_finalizer` helps to work around this limitation by allowing the
add-on to defer calls to such Node-APIs to a point in time outside of the GC
finalization.

### Simple asynchronous operations#

Addon modules often need to leverage async helpers from libuv as part of their
implementation. This allows them to schedule work to be executed
asynchronously so that their methods can return in advance of the work being
completed. This allows them to avoid blocking overall execution of the Node.js
application.

Node-API provides an ABI-stable interface for these supporting functions which
covers the most common asynchronous use cases.

Node-API defines the `napi_async_work` structure which is used to manage
asynchronous workers. Instances are created/deleted with
`napi_create_async_work` and `napi_delete_async_work`.

The `execute` and `complete` callbacks are functions that will be invoked when
the executor is ready to execute and when it completes its task respectively.

The `execute` function should avoid making any Node-API calls that could
result in the execution of JavaScript or interaction with JavaScript objects.
Most often, any code that needs to make Node-API calls should be made in
`complete` callback instead. Avoid using the `napi_env` parameter in the
execute callback as it will likely execute JavaScript.

These functions implement the following interfaces:

    
    
    typedef void (*napi_async_execute_callback)(napi_env env,
                                                void* data);
    typedef void (*napi_async_complete_callback)(napi_env env,
                                                 napi_status status,
                                                 void* data); copy

When these methods are invoked, the `data` parameter passed will be the addon-
provided `void*` data that was passed into the `napi_create_async_work` call.

Once created the async worker can be queued for execution using the
`napi_queue_async_work` function:

    
    
    napi_status napi_queue_async_work(node_api_basic_env env,
                                      napi_async_work work); copy

`napi_cancel_async_work` can be used if the work needs to be cancelled before
the work has started execution.

After calling `napi_cancel_async_work`, the `complete` callback will be
invoked with a status value of `napi_cancelled`. The work should not be
deleted before the `complete` callback invocation, even when it was cancelled.

#### `napi_create_async_work`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.6.0 | Added `async_resource` and `async_resource_name` parameters.  
v8.0.0 | Added in: v8.0.0  
N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_async_work(napi_env env,
                                       napi_value async_resource,
                                       napi_value async_resource_name,
                                       napi_async_execute_callback execute,
                                       napi_async_complete_callback complete,
                                       void* data,
                                       napi_async_work* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] async_resource`: An optional object associated with the async work that will be passed to possible `async_hooks` `init` hooks.
  * `[in] async_resource_name`: Identifier for the kind of resource that is being provided for diagnostic information exposed by the `async_hooks` API.
  * `[in] execute`: The native function which should be called to execute the logic asynchronously. The given function is called from a worker pool thread and can execute in parallel with the main event loop thread.
  * `[in] complete`: The native function which will be called when the asynchronous logic is completed or is cancelled. The given function is called from the main event loop thread. `napi_async_complete_callback` provides more details.
  * `[in] data`: User-provided data context. This will be passed back into the execute and complete functions.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_async_work*` which is the handle to the newly created async work.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API allocates a work object that is used to execute logic asynchronously.
It should be freed using `napi_delete_async_work` once the work is no longer
required.

`async_resource_name` should be a null-terminated, UTF-8-encoded string.

The `async_resource_name` identifier is provided by the user and should be
representative of the type of async work being performed. It is also
recommended to apply namespacing to the identifier, e.g. by including the
module name. See the `async_hooks` documentation for more information.

#### `napi_delete_async_work`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_delete_async_work(napi_env env,
                                       napi_async_work work); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] work`: The handle returned by the call to `napi_create_async_work`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API frees a previously allocated work object.

This API can be called even if there is a pending JavaScript exception.

#### `napi_queue_async_work`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_queue_async_work(node_api_basic_env env,
                                      napi_async_work work); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] work`: The handle returned by the call to `napi_create_async_work`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API requests that the previously allocated work be scheduled for
execution. Once it returns successfully, this API must not be called again
with the same `napi_async_work` item or the result will be undefined.

#### `napi_cancel_async_work`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_cancel_async_work(node_api_basic_env env,
                                       napi_async_work work); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] work`: The handle returned by the call to `napi_create_async_work`.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API cancels queued work if it has not yet been started. If it has already
started executing, it cannot be cancelled and `napi_generic_failure` will be
returned. If successful, the `complete` callback will be invoked with a status
value of `napi_cancelled`. The work should not be deleted before the
`complete` callback invocation, even if it has been successfully cancelled.

This API can be called even if there is a pending JavaScript exception.

### Custom asynchronous operations#

The simple asynchronous work APIs above may not be appropriate for every
scenario. When using any other asynchronous mechanism, the following APIs are
necessary to ensure an asynchronous operation is properly tracked by the
runtime.

#### `napi_async_init`#

Added in: v8.6.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_async_init(napi_env env,
                                napi_value async_resource,
                                napi_value async_resource_name,
                                napi_async_context* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] async_resource`: Object associated with the async work that will be passed to possible `async_hooks` `init` hooks and can be accessed by `async_hooks.executionAsyncResource()`.
  * `[in] async_resource_name`: Identifier for the kind of resource that is being provided for diagnostic information exposed by the `async_hooks` API.
  * `[out] result`: The initialized async context.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

The `async_resource` object needs to be kept alive until `napi_async_destroy`
to keep `async_hooks` related API acts correctly. In order to retain ABI
compatibility with previous versions, `napi_async_context`s are not
maintaining the strong reference to the `async_resource` objects to avoid
introducing causing memory leaks. However, if the `async_resource` is garbage
collected by JavaScript engine before the `napi_async_context` was destroyed
by `napi_async_destroy`, calling `napi_async_context` related APIs like
`napi_open_callback_scope` and `napi_make_callback` can cause problems like
loss of async context when using the `AsyncLocalStorage` API.

In order to retain ABI compatibility with previous versions, passing `NULL`
for `async_resource` does not result in an error. However, this is not
recommended as this will result in undesirable behavior with `async_hooks`
`init` hooks and `async_hooks.executionAsyncResource()` as the resource is now
required by the underlying `async_hooks` implementation in order to provide
the linkage between async callbacks.

#### `napi_async_destroy`#

Added in: v8.6.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_async_destroy(napi_env env,
                                   napi_async_context async_context); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] async_context`: The async context to be destroyed.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API can be called even if there is a pending JavaScript exception.

#### `napi_make_callback`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.6.0 | Added `async_context` parameter.  
v8.0.0 | Added in: v8.0.0  
N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_make_callback(napi_env env,
                                               napi_async_context async_context,
                                               napi_value recv,
                                               napi_value func,
                                               size_t argc,
                                               const napi_value* argv,
                                               napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] async_context`: Context for the async operation that is invoking the callback. This should normally be a value previously obtained from `napi_async_init`. In order to retain ABI compatibility with previous versions, passing `NULL` for `async_context` does not result in an error. However, this results in incorrect operation of async hooks. Potential issues include loss of async context when using the `AsyncLocalStorage` API.
  * `[in] recv`: The `this` value passed to the called function.
  * `[in] func`: `napi_value` representing the JavaScript function to be invoked.
  * `[in] argc`: The count of elements in the `argv` array.
  * `[in] argv`: Array of JavaScript values as `napi_value` representing the arguments to the function. If `argc` is zero this parameter may be omitted by passing in `NULL`.
  * `[out] result`: `napi_value` representing the JavaScript object returned.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This method allows a JavaScript function object to be called from a native
add-on. This API is similar to `napi_call_function`. However, it is used to
call _from_ native code back _into_ JavaScript _after_ returning from an async
operation (when there is no other script on the stack). It is a fairly simple
wrapper around `node::MakeCallback`.

Note it is _not_ necessary to use `napi_make_callback` from within a
`napi_async_complete_callback`; in that situation the callback's async context
has already been set up, so a direct call to `napi_call_function` is
sufficient and appropriate. Use of the `napi_make_callback` function may be
required when implementing custom async behavior that does not use
`napi_create_async_work`.

Any `process.nextTick`s or Promises scheduled on the microtask queue by
JavaScript during the callback are ran before returning back to C/C++.

#### `napi_open_callback_scope`#

Added in: v9.6.0 N-API version: 3

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_open_callback_scope(napi_env env,
                                                     napi_value resource_object,
                                                     napi_async_context context,
                                                     napi_callback_scope* result) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] resource_object`: An object associated with the async work that will be passed to possible `async_hooks` `init` hooks. This parameter has been deprecated and is ignored at runtime. Use the `async_resource` parameter in `napi_async_init` instead.
  * `[in] context`: Context for the async operation that is invoking the callback. This should be a value previously obtained from `napi_async_init`.
  * `[out] result`: The newly created scope.

There are cases (for example, resolving promises) where it is necessary to
have the equivalent of the scope associated with a callback in place when
making certain Node-API calls. If there is no other script on the stack the
`napi_open_callback_scope` and `napi_close_callback_scope` functions can be
used to open/close the required scope.

#### `napi_close_callback_scope`#

Added in: v9.6.0 N-API version: 3

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_close_callback_scope(napi_env env,
                                                      napi_callback_scope scope) copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] scope`: The scope to be closed.

This API can be called even if there is a pending JavaScript exception.

### Version management#

#### `napi_get_node_version`#

Added in: v8.4.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    typedef struct {
      uint32_t major;
      uint32_t minor;
      uint32_t patch;
      const char* release;
    } napi_node_version;
    
    napi_status napi_get_node_version(node_api_basic_env env,
                                      const napi_node_version** version); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[out] version`: A pointer to version information for Node.js itself.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This function fills the `version` struct with the major, minor, and patch
version of Node.js that is currently running, and the `release` field with the
value of `process.release.name`.

The returned buffer is statically allocated and does not need to be freed.

#### `napi_get_version`#

Added in: v8.0.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_get_version(node_api_basic_env env,
                                 uint32_t* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[out] result`: The highest version of Node-API supported.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API returns the highest Node-API version supported by the Node.js
runtime. Node-API is planned to be additive such that newer releases of
Node.js may support additional API functions. In order to allow an addon to
use a newer function when running with versions of Node.js that support it,
while providing fallback behavior when running with Node.js versions that
don't support it:

  * Call `napi_get_version()` to determine if the API is available.
  * If available, dynamically load a pointer to the function using `uv_dlsym()`.
  * Use the dynamically loaded pointer to invoke the function.
  * If the function is not available, provide an alternate implementation that does not use the function.

### Memory management#

#### `napi_adjust_external_memory`#

Added in: v8.5.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_adjust_external_memory(node_api_basic_env env,
                                                        int64_t change_in_bytes,
                                                        int64_t* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] change_in_bytes`: The change in externally allocated memory that is kept alive by JavaScript objects.
  * `[out] result`: The adjusted value

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This function gives V8 an indication of the amount of externally allocated
memory that is kept alive by JavaScript objects (i.e. a JavaScript object that
points to its own memory allocated by a native addon). Registering externally
allocated memory will trigger global garbage collections more often than it
would otherwise.

### Promises#

Node-API provides facilities for creating `Promise` objects as described in
[Section 25.4](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-promise-objects) of the
ECMA specification. It implements promises as a pair of objects. When a
promise is created by `napi_create_promise()`, a "deferred" object is created
and returned alongside the `Promise`. The deferred object is bound to the
created `Promise` and is the only means to resolve or reject the `Promise`
using `napi_resolve_deferred()` or `napi_reject_deferred()`. The deferred
object that is created by `napi_create_promise()` is freed by
`napi_resolve_deferred()` or `napi_reject_deferred()`. The `Promise` object
may be returned to JavaScript where it can be used in the usual fashion.

For example, to create a promise and pass it to an asynchronous worker:

    
    
    napi_deferred deferred;
    napi_value promise;
    napi_status status;
    
    // Create the promise.
    status = napi_create_promise(env, &deferred, &promise);
    if (status != napi_ok) return NULL;
    
    // Pass the deferred to a function that performs an asynchronous action.
    do_something_asynchronous(deferred);
    
    // Return the promise to JS
    return promise; copy

The above function `do_something_asynchronous()` would perform its
asynchronous action and then it would resolve or reject the deferred, thereby
concluding the promise and freeing the deferred:

    
    
    napi_deferred deferred;
    napi_value undefined;
    napi_status status;
    
    // Create a value with which to conclude the deferred.
    status = napi_get_undefined(env, &undefined);
    if (status != napi_ok) return NULL;
    
    // Resolve or reject the promise associated with the deferred depending on
    // whether the asynchronous action succeeded.
    if (asynchronous_action_succeeded) {
      status = napi_resolve_deferred(env, deferred, undefined);
    } else {
      status = napi_reject_deferred(env, deferred, undefined);
    }
    if (status != napi_ok) return NULL;
    
    // At this point the deferred has been freed, so we should assign NULL to it.
    deferred = NULL; copy

#### `napi_create_promise`#

Added in: v8.5.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_create_promise(napi_env env,
                                    napi_deferred* deferred,
                                    napi_value* promise); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[out] deferred`: A newly created deferred object which can later be passed to `napi_resolve_deferred()` or `napi_reject_deferred()` to resolve resp. reject the associated promise.
  * `[out] promise`: The JavaScript promise associated with the deferred object.

Returns `napi_ok` if the API succeeded.

This API creates a deferred object and a JavaScript promise.

#### `napi_resolve_deferred`#

Added in: v8.5.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_resolve_deferred(napi_env env,
                                      napi_deferred deferred,
                                      napi_value resolution); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] deferred`: The deferred object whose associated promise to resolve.
  * `[in] resolution`: The value with which to resolve the promise.

This API resolves a JavaScript promise by way of the deferred object with
which it is associated. Thus, it can only be used to resolve JavaScript
promises for which the corresponding deferred object is available. This
effectively means that the promise must have been created using
`napi_create_promise()` and the deferred object returned from that call must
have been retained in order to be passed to this API.

The deferred object is freed upon successful completion.

#### `napi_reject_deferred`#

Added in: v8.5.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_reject_deferred(napi_env env,
                                     napi_deferred deferred,
                                     napi_value rejection); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] deferred`: The deferred object whose associated promise to resolve.
  * `[in] rejection`: The value with which to reject the promise.

This API rejects a JavaScript promise by way of the deferred object with which
it is associated. Thus, it can only be used to reject JavaScript promises for
which the corresponding deferred object is available. This effectively means
that the promise must have been created using `napi_create_promise()` and the
deferred object returned from that call must have been retained in order to be
passed to this API.

The deferred object is freed upon successful completion.

#### `napi_is_promise`#

Added in: v8.5.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    napi_status napi_is_promise(napi_env env,
                                napi_value value,
                                bool* is_promise); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] value`: The value to examine
  * `[out] is_promise`: Flag indicating whether `promise` is a native promise object (that is, a promise object created by the underlying engine).

### Script execution#

Node-API provides an API for executing a string containing JavaScript using
the underlying JavaScript engine.

#### `napi_run_script`#

Added in: v8.5.0 N-API version: 1

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_run_script(napi_env env,
                                            napi_value script,
                                            napi_value* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] script`: A JavaScript string containing the script to execute.
  * `[out] result`: The value resulting from having executed the script.

This function executes a string of JavaScript code and returns its result with
the following caveats:

  * Unlike `eval`, this function does not allow the script to access the current lexical scope, and therefore also does not allow to access the module scope, meaning that pseudo-globals such as `require` will not be available.
  * The script can access the [global scope](globals.html). Function and `var` declarations in the script will be added to the `global` object. Variable declarations made using `let` and `const` will be visible globally, but will not be added to the `global` object.
  * The value of `this` is `global` within the script.

### libuv event loop#

Node-API provides a function for getting the current event loop associated
with a specific `napi_env`.

#### `napi_get_uv_event_loop`#

Added in: v9.3.0, v8.10.0 N-API version: 2

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status napi_get_uv_event_loop(node_api_basic_env env,
                                                   struct uv_loop_s** loop); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[out] loop`: The current libuv loop instance.

Note: While libuv has been relatively stable over time, it does not provide an
ABI stability guarantee. Use of this function should be avoided. Its use may
result in an addon that does not work across Node.js versions. [asynchronous-
thread-safe-function-
calls](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/n-api.html#asynchronous-thread-safe-
function-calls) are an alternative for many use cases.

### Asynchronous thread-safe function calls#

JavaScript functions can normally only be called from a native addon's main
thread. If an addon creates additional threads, then Node-API functions that
require a `napi_env`, `napi_value`, or `napi_ref` must not be called from
those threads.

When an addon has additional threads and JavaScript functions need to be
invoked based on the processing completed by those threads, those threads must
communicate with the addon's main thread so that the main thread can invoke
the JavaScript function on their behalf. The thread-safe function APIs provide
an easy way to do this.

These APIs provide the type `napi_threadsafe_function` as well as APIs to
create, destroy, and call objects of this type.
`napi_create_threadsafe_function()` creates a persistent reference to a
`napi_value` that holds a JavaScript function which can be called from
multiple threads. The calls happen asynchronously. This means that values with
which the JavaScript callback is to be called will be placed in a queue, and,
for each value in the queue, a call will eventually be made to the JavaScript
function.

Upon creation of a `napi_threadsafe_function` a `napi_finalize` callback can
be provided. This callback will be invoked on the main thread when the thread-
safe function is about to be destroyed. It receives the context and the
finalize data given during construction, and provides an opportunity for
cleaning up after the threads e.g. by calling `uv_thread_join()`. **Aside from
the main loop thread, no threads should be using the thread-safe function
after the finalize callback completes.**

The `context` given during the call to `napi_create_threadsafe_function()` can
be retrieved from any thread with a call to
`napi_get_threadsafe_function_context()`.

#### Calling a thread-safe function#

`napi_call_threadsafe_function()` can be used for initiating a call into
JavaScript. `napi_call_threadsafe_function()` accepts a parameter which
controls whether the API behaves blockingly. If set to
`napi_tsfn_nonblocking`, the API behaves non-blockingly, returning
`napi_queue_full` if the queue was full, preventing data from being
successfully added to the queue. If set to `napi_tsfn_blocking`, the API
blocks until space becomes available in the queue.
`napi_call_threadsafe_function()` never blocks if the thread-safe function was
created with a maximum queue size of 0.

`napi_call_threadsafe_function()` should not be called with
`napi_tsfn_blocking` from a JavaScript thread, because, if the queue is full,
it may cause the JavaScript thread to deadlock.

The actual call into JavaScript is controlled by the callback given via the
`call_js_cb` parameter. `call_js_cb` is invoked on the main thread once for
each value that was placed into the queue by a successful call to
`napi_call_threadsafe_function()`. If such a callback is not given, a default
callback will be used, and the resulting JavaScript call will have no
arguments. The `call_js_cb` callback receives the JavaScript function to call
as a `napi_value` in its parameters, as well as the `void*` context pointer
used when creating the `napi_threadsafe_function`, and the next data pointer
that was created by one of the secondary threads. The callback can then use an
API such as `napi_call_function()` to call into JavaScript.

The callback may also be invoked with `env` and `call_js_cb` both set to
`NULL` to indicate that calls into JavaScript are no longer possible, while
items remain in the queue that may need to be freed. This normally occurs when
the Node.js process exits while there is a thread-safe function still active.

It is not necessary to call into JavaScript via `napi_make_callback()` because
Node-API runs `call_js_cb` in a context appropriate for callbacks.

Zero or more queued items may be invoked in each tick of the event loop.
Applications should not depend on a specific behavior other than progress in
invoking callbacks will be made and events will be invoked as time moves
forward.

#### Reference counting of thread-safe functions#

Threads can be added to and removed from a `napi_threadsafe_function` object
during its existence. Thus, in addition to specifying an initial number of
threads upon creation, `napi_acquire_threadsafe_function` can be called to
indicate that a new thread will start making use of the thread-safe function.
Similarly, `napi_release_threadsafe_function` can be called to indicate that
an existing thread will stop making use of the thread-safe function.

`napi_threadsafe_function` objects are destroyed when every thread which uses
the object has called `napi_release_threadsafe_function()` or has received a
return status of `napi_closing` in response to a call to
`napi_call_threadsafe_function`. The queue is emptied before the
`napi_threadsafe_function` is destroyed. `napi_release_threadsafe_function()`
should be the last API call made in conjunction with a given
`napi_threadsafe_function`, because after the call completes, there is no
guarantee that the `napi_threadsafe_function` is still allocated. For the same
reason, do not use a thread-safe function after receiving a return value of
`napi_closing` in response to a call to `napi_call_threadsafe_function`. Data
associated with the `napi_threadsafe_function` can be freed in its
`napi_finalize` callback which was passed to
`napi_create_threadsafe_function()`. The parameter `initial_thread_count` of
`napi_create_threadsafe_function` marks the initial number of acquisitions of
the thread-safe functions, instead of calling
`napi_acquire_threadsafe_function` multiple times at creation.

Once the number of threads making use of a `napi_threadsafe_function` reaches
zero, no further threads can start making use of it by calling
`napi_acquire_threadsafe_function()`. In fact, all subsequent API calls
associated with it, except `napi_release_threadsafe_function()`, will return
an error value of `napi_closing`.

The thread-safe function can be "aborted" by giving a value of
`napi_tsfn_abort` to `napi_release_threadsafe_function()`. This will cause all
subsequent APIs associated with the thread-safe function except
`napi_release_threadsafe_function()` to return `napi_closing` even before its
reference count reaches zero. In particular, `napi_call_threadsafe_function()`
will return `napi_closing`, thus informing the threads that it is no longer
possible to make asynchronous calls to the thread-safe function. This can be
used as a criterion for terminating the thread. **Upon receiving a return
value of`napi_closing` from `napi_call_threadsafe_function()` a thread must
not use the thread-safe function anymore because it is no longer guaranteed to
be allocated.**

#### Deciding whether to keep the process running#

Similarly to libuv handles, thread-safe functions can be "referenced" and
"unreferenced". A "referenced" thread-safe function will cause the event loop
on the thread on which it is created to remain alive until the thread-safe
function is destroyed. In contrast, an "unreferenced" thread-safe function
will not prevent the event loop from exiting. The APIs
`napi_ref_threadsafe_function` and `napi_unref_threadsafe_function` exist for
this purpose.

Neither does `napi_unref_threadsafe_function` mark the thread-safe functions
as able to be destroyed nor does `napi_ref_threadsafe_function` prevent it
from being destroyed.

#### `napi_create_threadsafe_function`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.6.0, v10.17.0 | Made `func` parameter optional with custom `call_js_cb`.  
v10.6.0 | Added in: v10.6.0  
N-API version: 4

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status
    napi_create_threadsafe_function(napi_env env,
                                    napi_value func,
                                    napi_value async_resource,
                                    napi_value async_resource_name,
                                    size_t max_queue_size,
                                    size_t initial_thread_count,
                                    void* thread_finalize_data,
                                    napi_finalize thread_finalize_cb,
                                    void* context,
                                    napi_threadsafe_function_call_js call_js_cb,
                                    napi_threadsafe_function* result); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] func`: An optional JavaScript function to call from another thread. It must be provided if `NULL` is passed to `call_js_cb`.
  * `[in] async_resource`: An optional object associated with the async work that will be passed to possible `async_hooks` `init` hooks.
  * `[in] async_resource_name`: A JavaScript string to provide an identifier for the kind of resource that is being provided for diagnostic information exposed by the `async_hooks` API.
  * `[in] max_queue_size`: Maximum size of the queue. `0` for no limit.
  * `[in] initial_thread_count`: The initial number of acquisitions, i.e. the initial number of threads, including the main thread, which will be making use of this function.
  * `[in] thread_finalize_data`: Optional data to be passed to `thread_finalize_cb`.
  * `[in] thread_finalize_cb`: Optional function to call when the `napi_threadsafe_function` is being destroyed.
  * `[in] context`: Optional data to attach to the resulting `napi_threadsafe_function`.
  * `[in] call_js_cb`: Optional callback which calls the JavaScript function in response to a call on a different thread. This callback will be called on the main thread. If not given, the JavaScript function will be called with no parameters and with `undefined` as its `this` value. `napi_threadsafe_function_call_js` provides more details.
  * `[out] result`: The asynchronous thread-safe JavaScript function.

**Change History:**

  * Version 10 (`NAPI_VERSION` is defined as `10` or higher):

Uncaught exceptions thrown in `call_js_cb` are handled with the
`'uncaughtException'` event, instead of being ignored.

#### `napi_get_threadsafe_function_context`#

Added in: v10.6.0 N-API version: 4

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status
    napi_get_threadsafe_function_context(napi_threadsafe_function func,
                                         void** result); copy

  * `[in] func`: The thread-safe function for which to retrieve the context.
  * `[out] result`: The location where to store the context.

This API may be called from any thread which makes use of `func`.

#### `napi_call_threadsafe_function`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.5.0 | Support for `napi_would_deadlock` has been reverted.  
v14.1.0 | Return `napi_would_deadlock` when called with `napi_tsfn_blocking` from the main thread or a worker thread and the queue is full.  
v10.6.0 | Added in: v10.6.0  
N-API version: 4

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status
    napi_call_threadsafe_function(napi_threadsafe_function func,
                                  void* data,
                                  napi_threadsafe_function_call_mode is_blocking); copy

  * `[in] func`: The asynchronous thread-safe JavaScript function to invoke.
  * `[in] data`: Data to send into JavaScript via the callback `call_js_cb` provided during the creation of the thread-safe JavaScript function.
  * `[in] is_blocking`: Flag whose value can be either `napi_tsfn_blocking` to indicate that the call should block if the queue is full or `napi_tsfn_nonblocking` to indicate that the call should return immediately with a status of `napi_queue_full` whenever the queue is full.

This API should not be called with `napi_tsfn_blocking` from a JavaScript
thread, because, if the queue is full, it may cause the JavaScript thread to
deadlock.

This API will return `napi_closing` if `napi_release_threadsafe_function()`
was called with `abort` set to `napi_tsfn_abort` from any thread. The value is
only added to the queue if the API returns `napi_ok`.

This API may be called from any thread which makes use of `func`.

#### `napi_acquire_threadsafe_function`#

Added in: v10.6.0 N-API version: 4

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status
    napi_acquire_threadsafe_function(napi_threadsafe_function func); copy

  * `[in] func`: The asynchronous thread-safe JavaScript function to start making use of.

A thread should call this API before passing `func` to any other thread-safe
function APIs to indicate that it will be making use of `func`. This prevents
`func` from being destroyed when all other threads have stopped making use of
it.

This API may be called from any thread which will start making use of `func`.

#### `napi_release_threadsafe_function`#

Added in: v10.6.0 N-API version: 4

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status
    napi_release_threadsafe_function(napi_threadsafe_function func,
                                     napi_threadsafe_function_release_mode mode); copy

  * `[in] func`: The asynchronous thread-safe JavaScript function whose reference count to decrement.
  * `[in] mode`: Flag whose value can be either `napi_tsfn_release` to indicate that the current thread will make no further calls to the thread-safe function, or `napi_tsfn_abort` to indicate that in addition to the current thread, no other thread should make any further calls to the thread-safe function. If set to `napi_tsfn_abort`, further calls to `napi_call_threadsafe_function()` will return `napi_closing`, and no further values will be placed in the queue.

A thread should call this API when it stops making use of `func`. Passing
`func` to any thread-safe APIs after having called this API has undefined
results, as `func` may have been destroyed.

This API may be called from any thread which will stop making use of `func`.

#### `napi_ref_threadsafe_function`#

Added in: v10.6.0 N-API version: 4

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status
    napi_ref_threadsafe_function(node_api_basic_env env, napi_threadsafe_function func); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] func`: The thread-safe function to reference.

This API is used to indicate that the event loop running on the main thread
should not exit until `func` has been destroyed. Similar to
[`uv_ref`](https://docs.libuv.org/en/v1.x/handle.html#c.uv_ref) it is also
idempotent.

Neither does `napi_unref_threadsafe_function` mark the thread-safe functions
as able to be destroyed nor does `napi_ref_threadsafe_function` prevent it
from being destroyed. `napi_acquire_threadsafe_function` and
`napi_release_threadsafe_function` are available for that purpose.

This API may only be called from the main thread.

#### `napi_unref_threadsafe_function`#

Added in: v10.6.0 N-API version: 4

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status
    napi_unref_threadsafe_function(node_api_basic_env env, napi_threadsafe_function func); copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[in] func`: The thread-safe function to unreference.

This API is used to indicate that the event loop running on the main thread
may exit before `func` is destroyed. Similar to
[`uv_unref`](https://docs.libuv.org/en/v1.x/handle.html#c.uv_unref) it is also
idempotent.

This API may only be called from the main thread.

### Miscellaneous utilities#

#### `node_api_get_module_file_name`#

Added in: v15.9.0, v14.18.0, v12.22.0 N-API version: 9

    
    
    NAPI_EXTERN napi_status
    node_api_get_module_file_name(node_api_basic_env env, const char** result);
     copy

  * `[in] env`: The environment that the API is invoked under.
  * `[out] result`: A URL containing the absolute path of the location from which the add-on was loaded. For a file on the local file system it will start with `file://`. The string is null-terminated and owned by `env` and must thus not be modified or freed.

`result` may be an empty string if the add-on loading process fails to
establish the add-on's file name during loading.

## C++ embedder API#

Node.js provides a number of C++ APIs that can be used to execute JavaScript
in a Node.js environment from other C++ software.

The documentation for these APIs can be found in
[src/node.h](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/HEAD/src/node.h) in the
Node.js source tree. In addition to the APIs exposed by Node.js, some required
concepts are provided by the V8 embedder API.

Because using Node.js as an embedded library is different from writing code
that is executed by Node.js, breaking changes do not follow typical Node.js
[deprecation policy](deprecations.html) and may occur on each semver-major
release without prior warning.

### Example embedding application#

The following sections will provide an overview over how to use these APIs to
create an application from scratch that will perform the equivalent of `node
-e <code>`, i.e. that will take a piece of JavaScript and run it in a Node.js-
specific environment.

The full code can be found [in the Node.js source
tree](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/HEAD/test/embedding/embedtest.cc).

#### Setting up a per-process state#

Node.js requires some per-process state management in order to run:

  * Arguments parsing for Node.js [CLI options](cli.html),
  * V8 per-process requirements, such as a `v8::Platform` instance.

The following example shows how these can be set up. Some class names are from
the `node` and `v8` C++ namespaces, respectively.

    
    
    int main(int argc, char** argv) {
      argv = uv_setup_args(argc, argv);
      std::vector<std::string> args(argv, argv + argc);
      // Parse Node.js CLI options, and print any errors that have occurred while
      // trying to parse them.
      std::unique_ptr<node::InitializationResult> result =
          node::InitializeOncePerProcess(args, {
            node::ProcessInitializationFlags::kNoInitializeV8,
            node::ProcessInitializationFlags::kNoInitializeNodeV8Platform
          });
    
      for (const std::string& error : result->errors())
        fprintf(stderr, "%s: %s\n", args[0].c_str(), error.c_str());
      if (result->early_return() != 0) {
        return result->exit_code();
      }
    
      // Create a v8::Platform instance. `MultiIsolatePlatform::Create()` is a way
      // to create a v8::Platform instance that Node.js can use when creating
      // Worker threads. When no `MultiIsolatePlatform` instance is present,
      // Worker threads are disabled.
      std::unique_ptr<MultiIsolatePlatform> platform =
          MultiIsolatePlatform::Create(4);
      V8::InitializePlatform(platform.get());
      V8::Initialize();
    
      // See below for the contents of this function.
      int ret = RunNodeInstance(
          platform.get(), result->args(), result->exec_args());
    
      V8::Dispose();
      V8::DisposePlatform();
    
      node::TearDownOncePerProcess();
      return ret;
    } copy

#### Setting up a per-instance state#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The `CommonEnvironmentSetup` and `SpinEventLoop` utilities were added.  
  
Node.js has a concept of a “Node.js instance”, that is commonly being referred
to as `node::Environment`. Each `node::Environment` is associated with:

  * Exactly one `v8::Isolate`, i.e. one JS Engine instance,
  * Exactly one `uv_loop_t`, i.e. one event loop,
  * A number of `v8::Context`s, but exactly one main `v8::Context`, and
  * One `node::IsolateData` instance that contains information that could be shared by multiple `node::Environment`s. The embedder should make sure that `node::IsolateData` is shared only among `node::Environment`s that use the same `v8::Isolate`, Node.js does not perform this check.

In order to set up a `v8::Isolate`, an `v8::ArrayBuffer::Allocator` needs to
be provided. One possible choice is the default Node.js allocator, which can
be created through `node::ArrayBufferAllocator::Create()`. Using the Node.js
allocator allows minor performance optimizations when addons use the Node.js
C++ `Buffer` API, and is required in order to track `ArrayBuffer` memory in
`process.memoryUsage()`.

Additionally, each `v8::Isolate` that is used for a Node.js instance needs to
be registered and unregistered with the `MultiIsolatePlatform` instance, if
one is being used, in order for the platform to know which event loop to use
for tasks scheduled by the `v8::Isolate`.

The `node::NewIsolate()` helper function creates a `v8::Isolate`, sets it up
with some Node.js-specific hooks (e.g. the Node.js error handler), and
registers it with the platform automatically.

    
    
    int RunNodeInstance(MultiIsolatePlatform* platform,
                        const std::vector<std::string>& args,
                        const std::vector<std::string>& exec_args) {
      int exit_code = 0;
    
      // Setup up a libuv event loop, v8::Isolate, and Node.js Environment.
      std::vector<std::string> errors;
      std::unique_ptr<CommonEnvironmentSetup> setup =
          CommonEnvironmentSetup::Create(platform, &errors, args, exec_args);
      if (!setup) {
        for (const std::string& err : errors)
          fprintf(stderr, "%s: %s\n", args[0].c_str(), err.c_str());
        return 1;
      }
    
      Isolate* isolate = setup->isolate();
      Environment* env = setup->env();
    
      {
        Locker locker(isolate);
        Isolate::Scope isolate_scope(isolate);
        HandleScope handle_scope(isolate);
        // The v8::Context needs to be entered when node::CreateEnvironment() and
        // node::LoadEnvironment() are being called.
        Context::Scope context_scope(setup->context());
    
        // Set up the Node.js instance for execution, and run code inside of it.
        // There is also a variant that takes a callback and provides it with
        // the `require` and `process` objects, so that it can manually compile
        // and run scripts as needed.
        // The `require` function inside this script does *not* access the file
        // system, and can only load built-in Node.js modules.
        // `module.createRequire()` is being used to create one that is able to
        // load files from the disk, and uses the standard CommonJS file loader
        // instead of the internal-only `require` function.
        MaybeLocal<Value> loadenv_ret = node::LoadEnvironment(
            env,
            "const publicRequire ="
            "  require('node:module').createRequire(process.cwd() + '/');"
            "globalThis.require = publicRequire;"
            "require('node:vm').runInThisContext(process.argv[1]);");
    
        if (loadenv_ret.IsEmpty())  // There has been a JS exception.
          return 1;
    
        exit_code = node::SpinEventLoop(env).FromMaybe(1);
    
        // node::Stop() can be used to explicitly stop the event loop and keep
        // further JavaScript from running. It can be called from any thread,
        // and will act like worker.terminate() if called from another thread.
        node::Stop(env);
      }
    
      return exit_code;
    } copy

## Child process#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/child_process.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/child_process.js)

The `node:child_process` module provides the ability to spawn subprocesses in
a manner that is similar, but not identical, to
[`popen(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/popen.3.html). This
capability is primarily provided by the `child_process.spawn()` function:

    
    
    const { spawn } = require('node:child_process');
    const ls = spawn('ls', ['-lh', '/usr']);
    
    ls.stdout.on('data', (data) => {
      console.log(`stdout: ${data}`);
    });
    
    ls.stderr.on('data', (data) => {
      console.error(`stderr: ${data}`);
    });
    
    ls.on('close', (code) => {
      console.log(`child process exited with code ${code}`);
    });import { spawn } from 'node:child_process';
    const ls = spawn('ls', ['-lh', '/usr']);
    
    ls.stdout.on('data', (data) => {
      console.log(`stdout: ${data}`);
    });
    
    ls.stderr.on('data', (data) => {
      console.error(`stderr: ${data}`);
    });
    
    ls.on('close', (code) => {
      console.log(`child process exited with code ${code}`);
    });copy

By default, pipes for `stdin`, `stdout`, and `stderr` are established between
the parent Node.js process and the spawned subprocess. These pipes have
limited (and platform-specific) capacity. If the subprocess writes to stdout
in excess of that limit without the output being captured, the subprocess
blocks waiting for the pipe buffer to accept more data. This is identical to
the behavior of pipes in the shell. Use the `{ stdio: 'ignore' }` option if
the output will not be consumed.

The command lookup is performed using the `options.env.PATH` environment
variable if `env` is in the `options` object. Otherwise, `process.env.PATH` is
used. If `options.env` is set without `PATH`, lookup on Unix is performed on a
default search path search of `/usr/bin:/bin` (see your operating system's
manual for execvpe/execvp), on Windows the current processes environment
variable `PATH` is used.

On Windows, environment variables are case-insensitive. Node.js
lexicographically sorts the `env` keys and uses the first one that case-
insensitively matches. Only first (in lexicographic order) entry will be
passed to the subprocess. This might lead to issues on Windows when passing
objects to the `env` option that have multiple variants of the same key, such
as `PATH` and `Path`.

The `child_process.spawn()` method spawns the child process asynchronously,
without blocking the Node.js event loop. The `child_process.spawnSync()`
function provides equivalent functionality in a synchronous manner that blocks
the event loop until the spawned process either exits or is terminated.

For convenience, the `node:child_process` module provides a handful of
synchronous and asynchronous alternatives to `child_process.spawn()` and
`child_process.spawnSync()`. Each of these alternatives are implemented on top
of `child_process.spawn()` or `child_process.spawnSync()`.

  * `child_process.exec()`: spawns a shell and runs a command within that shell, passing the `stdout` and `stderr` to a callback function when complete.
  * `child_process.execFile()`: similar to `child_process.exec()` except that it spawns the command directly without first spawning a shell by default.
  * `child_process.fork()`: spawns a new Node.js process and invokes a specified module with an IPC communication channel established that allows sending messages between parent and child.
  * `child_process.execSync()`: a synchronous version of `child_process.exec()` that will block the Node.js event loop.
  * `child_process.execFileSync()`: a synchronous version of `child_process.execFile()` that will block the Node.js event loop.

For certain use cases, such as automating shell scripts, the synchronous
counterparts may be more convenient. In many cases, however, the synchronous
methods can have significant impact on performance due to stalling the event
loop while spawned processes complete.

### Asynchronous process creation#

The `child_process.spawn()`, `child_process.fork()`, `child_process.exec()`,
and `child_process.execFile()` methods all follow the idiomatic asynchronous
programming pattern typical of other Node.js APIs.

Each of the methods returns a `ChildProcess` instance. These objects implement
the Node.js `EventEmitter` API, allowing the parent process to register
listener functions that are called when certain events occur during the life
cycle of the child process.

The `child_process.exec()` and `child_process.execFile()` methods additionally
allow for an optional `callback` function to be specified that is invoked when
the child process terminates.

#### Spawning `.bat` and `.cmd` files on Windows#

The importance of the distinction between `child_process.exec()` and
`child_process.execFile()` can vary based on platform. On Unix-type operating
systems (Unix, Linux, macOS) `child_process.execFile()` can be more efficient
because it does not spawn a shell by default. On Windows, however, `.bat` and
`.cmd` files are not executable on their own without a terminal, and therefore
cannot be launched using `child_process.execFile()`. When running on Windows,
`.bat` and `.cmd` files can be invoked using `child_process.spawn()` with the
`shell` option set, with `child_process.exec()`, or by spawning `cmd.exe` and
passing the `.bat` or `.cmd` file as an argument (which is what the `shell`
option and `child_process.exec()` do). In any case, if the script filename
contains spaces it needs to be quoted.

    
    
    // OR...
    const { exec, spawn } = require('node:child_process');
    
    exec('my.bat', (err, stdout, stderr) => {
      if (err) {
        console.error(err);
        return;
      }
      console.log(stdout);
    });
    
    // Script with spaces in the filename:
    const bat = spawn('"my script.cmd"', ['a', 'b'], { shell: true });
    // or:
    exec('"my script.cmd" a b', (err, stdout, stderr) => {
      // ...
    });// OR...
    import { exec, spawn } from 'node:child_process';
    
    exec('my.bat', (err, stdout, stderr) => {
      if (err) {
        console.error(err);
        return;
      }
      console.log(stdout);
    });
    
    // Script with spaces in the filename:
    const bat = spawn('"my script.cmd"', ['a', 'b'], { shell: true });
    // or:
    exec('"my script.cmd" a b', (err, stdout, stderr) => {
      // ...
    });copy

#### `child_process.exec(command[, options][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.4.0 | AbortSignal support was added.  
v16.4.0, v14.18.0 | The `cwd` option can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v8.8.0 | The `windowsHide` option is supported now.  
v0.1.90 | Added in: v0.1.90  
  
  * `command` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The command to run, with space-separated arguments.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `cwd` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> Current working directory of the child process. **Default:** `process.cwd()`.
    * `env` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Environment key-value pairs. **Default:** `process.env`.
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `shell` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Shell to execute the command with. See Shell requirements and Default Windows shell. **Default:** `'/bin/sh'` on Unix, `process.env.ComSpec` on Windows.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows aborting the child process using an AbortSignal.
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`
    * `maxBuffer` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Largest amount of data in bytes allowed on stdout or stderr. If exceeded, the child process is terminated and any output is truncated. See caveat at `maxBuffer` and Unicode. **Default:** `1024 * 1024`.
    * `killSignal` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `'SIGTERM'`
    * `uid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the user identity of the process (see [`setuid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setuid.2.html)).
    * `gid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the group identity of the process (see [`setgid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setgid.2.html)).
    * `windowsHide` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Hide the subprocess console window that would normally be created on Windows systems. **Default:** `false`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) called with the output when process terminates. 
    * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `stdout` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>
    * `stderr` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>
  * Returns: <ChildProcess>

Spawns a shell then executes the `command` within that shell, buffering any
generated output. The `command` string passed to the exec function is
processed directly by the shell and special characters (vary based on
[shell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_command-line_interpreters)) need
to be dealt with accordingly:

    
    
    const { exec } = require('node:child_process');
    
    exec('"/path/to/test file/test.sh" arg1 arg2');
    // Double quotes are used so that the space in the path is not interpreted as
    // a delimiter of multiple arguments.
    
    exec('echo "The \\$HOME variable is $HOME"');
    // The $HOME variable is escaped in the first instance, but not in the second.import { exec } from 'node:child_process';
    
    exec('"/path/to/test file/test.sh" arg1 arg2');
    // Double quotes are used so that the space in the path is not interpreted as
    // a delimiter of multiple arguments.
    
    exec('echo "The \\$HOME variable is $HOME"');
    // The $HOME variable is escaped in the first instance, but not in the second.copy

**Never pass unsanitized user input to this function. Any input containing
shell metacharacters may be used to trigger arbitrary command execution.**

If a `callback` function is provided, it is called with the arguments `(error,
stdout, stderr)`. On success, `error` will be `null`. On error, `error` will
be an instance of `Error`. The `error.code` property will be the exit code of
the process. By convention, any exit code other than `0` indicates an error.
`error.signal` will be the signal that terminated the process.

The `stdout` and `stderr` arguments passed to the callback will contain the
stdout and stderr output of the child process. By default, Node.js will decode
the output as UTF-8 and pass strings to the callback. The `encoding` option
can be used to specify the character encoding used to decode the stdout and
stderr output. If `encoding` is `'buffer'`, or an unrecognized character
encoding, `Buffer` objects will be passed to the callback instead.

    
    
    const { exec } = require('node:child_process');
    exec('cat *.js missing_file | wc -l', (error, stdout, stderr) => {
      if (error) {
        console.error(`exec error: ${error}`);
        return;
      }
      console.log(`stdout: ${stdout}`);
      console.error(`stderr: ${stderr}`);
    });import { exec } from 'node:child_process';
    exec('cat *.js missing_file | wc -l', (error, stdout, stderr) => {
      if (error) {
        console.error(`exec error: ${error}`);
        return;
      }
      console.log(`stdout: ${stdout}`);
      console.error(`stderr: ${stderr}`);
    });copy

If `timeout` is greater than `0`, the parent process will send the signal
identified by the `killSignal` property (the default is `'SIGTERM'`) if the
child process runs longer than `timeout` milliseconds.

Unlike the [`exec(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/exec.3.html) POSIX
system call, `child_process.exec()` does not replace the existing process and
uses a shell to execute the command.

If this method is invoked as its `util.promisify()`ed version, it returns a
`Promise` for an `Object` with `stdout` and `stderr` properties. The returned
`ChildProcess` instance is attached to the `Promise` as a `child` property. In
case of an error (including any error resulting in an exit code other than 0),
a rejected promise is returned, with the same `error` object given in the
callback, but with two additional properties `stdout` and `stderr`.

    
    
    const util = require('node:util');
    const exec = util.promisify(require('node:child_process').exec);
    
    async function lsExample() {
      const { stdout, stderr } = await exec('ls');
      console.log('stdout:', stdout);
      console.error('stderr:', stderr);
    }
    lsExample();import { promisify } from 'node:util';
    import child_process from 'node:child_process';
    const exec = promisify(child_process.exec);
    
    async function lsExample() {
      const { stdout, stderr } = await exec('ls');
      console.log('stdout:', stdout);
      console.error('stderr:', stderr);
    }
    lsExample();copy

If the `signal` option is enabled, calling `.abort()` on the corresponding
`AbortController` is similar to calling `.kill()` on the child process except
the error passed to the callback will be an `AbortError`:

    
    
    const { exec } = require('node:child_process');
    const controller = new AbortController();
    const { signal } = controller;
    const child = exec('grep ssh', { signal }, (error) => {
      console.error(error); // an AbortError
    });
    controller.abort();import { exec } from 'node:child_process';
    const controller = new AbortController();
    const { signal } = controller;
    const child = exec('grep ssh', { signal }, (error) => {
      console.error(error); // an AbortError
    });
    controller.abort();copy

#### `child_process.execFile(file[, args][, options][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.4.0, v14.18.0 | The `cwd` option can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v15.4.0, v14.17.0 | AbortSignal support was added.  
v8.8.0 | The `windowsHide` option is supported now.  
v0.1.91 | Added in: v0.1.91  
  
  * `file` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The name or path of the executable file to run.
  * `args` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) List of string arguments.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `cwd` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> Current working directory of the child process.
    * `env` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Environment key-value pairs. **Default:** `process.env`.
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`
    * `maxBuffer` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Largest amount of data in bytes allowed on stdout or stderr. If exceeded, the child process is terminated and any output is truncated. See caveat at `maxBuffer` and Unicode. **Default:** `1024 * 1024`.
    * `killSignal` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `'SIGTERM'`
    * `uid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the user identity of the process (see [`setuid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setuid.2.html)).
    * `gid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the group identity of the process (see [`setgid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setgid.2.html)).
    * `windowsHide` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Hide the subprocess console window that would normally be created on Windows systems. **Default:** `false`.
    * `windowsVerbatimArguments` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) No quoting or escaping of arguments is done on Windows. Ignored on Unix. **Default:** `false`.
    * `shell` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If `true`, runs `command` inside of a shell. Uses `'/bin/sh'` on Unix, and `process.env.ComSpec` on Windows. A different shell can be specified as a string. See Shell requirements and Default Windows shell. **Default:** `false` (no shell).
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows aborting the child process using an AbortSignal.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Called with the output when process terminates. 
    * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `stdout` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>
    * `stderr` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>
  * Returns: <ChildProcess>

The `child_process.execFile()` function is similar to `child_process.exec()`
except that it does not spawn a shell by default. Rather, the specified
executable `file` is spawned directly as a new process making it slightly more
efficient than `child_process.exec()`.

The same options as `child_process.exec()` are supported. Since a shell is not
spawned, behaviors such as I/O redirection and file globbing are not
supported.

    
    
    const { execFile } = require('node:child_process');
    const child = execFile('node', ['--version'], (error, stdout, stderr) => {
      if (error) {
        throw error;
      }
      console.log(stdout);
    });import { execFile } from 'node:child_process';
    const child = execFile('node', ['--version'], (error, stdout, stderr) => {
      if (error) {
        throw error;
      }
      console.log(stdout);
    });copy

The `stdout` and `stderr` arguments passed to the callback will contain the
stdout and stderr output of the child process. By default, Node.js will decode
the output as UTF-8 and pass strings to the callback. The `encoding` option
can be used to specify the character encoding used to decode the stdout and
stderr output. If `encoding` is `'buffer'`, or an unrecognized character
encoding, `Buffer` objects will be passed to the callback instead.

If this method is invoked as its `util.promisify()`ed version, it returns a
`Promise` for an `Object` with `stdout` and `stderr` properties. The returned
`ChildProcess` instance is attached to the `Promise` as a `child` property. In
case of an error (including any error resulting in an exit code other than 0),
a rejected promise is returned, with the same `error` object given in the
callback, but with two additional properties `stdout` and `stderr`.

    
    
    const util = require('node:util');
    const execFile = util.promisify(require('node:child_process').execFile);
    async function getVersion() {
      const { stdout } = await execFile('node', ['--version']);
      console.log(stdout);
    }
    getVersion();import { promisify } from 'node:util';
    import child_process from 'node:child_process';
    const execFile = promisify(child_process.execFile);
    async function getVersion() {
      const { stdout } = await execFile('node', ['--version']);
      console.log(stdout);
    }
    getVersion();copy

**If the`shell` option is enabled, do not pass unsanitized user input to this
function. Any input containing shell metacharacters may be used to trigger
arbitrary command execution.**

If the `signal` option is enabled, calling `.abort()` on the corresponding
`AbortController` is similar to calling `.kill()` on the child process except
the error passed to the callback will be an `AbortError`:

    
    
    const { execFile } = require('node:child_process');
    const controller = new AbortController();
    const { signal } = controller;
    const child = execFile('node', ['--version'], { signal }, (error) => {
      console.error(error); // an AbortError
    });
    controller.abort();import { execFile } from 'node:child_process';
    const controller = new AbortController();
    const { signal } = controller;
    const child = execFile('node', ['--version'], { signal }, (error) => {
      console.error(error); // an AbortError
    });
    controller.abort();copy

#### `child_process.fork(modulePath[, args][, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.4.0, v16.14.0 | The `modulePath` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v16.4.0, v14.18.0 | The `cwd` option can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v15.13.0, v14.18.0 | timeout was added.  
v15.11.0, v14.18.0 | killSignal for AbortSignal was added.  
v15.6.0, v14.17.0 | AbortSignal support was added.  
v13.2.0, v12.16.0 | The `serialization` option is supported now.  
v8.0.0 | The `stdio` option can now be a string.  
v6.4.0 | The `stdio` option is supported now.  
v0.5.0 | Added in: v0.5.0  
  
  * `modulePath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> The module to run in the child.
  * `args` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) List of string arguments.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `cwd` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> Current working directory of the child process.
    * `detached` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Prepare child process to run independently of its parent process. Specific behavior depends on the platform (see `options.detached`).
    * `env` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Environment key-value pairs. **Default:** `process.env`.
    * `execPath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Executable used to create the child process.
    * `execArgv` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) List of string arguments passed to the executable. **Default:** `process.execArgv`.
    * `gid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the group identity of the process (see [`setgid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setgid.2.html)).
    * `serialization` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Specify the kind of serialization used for sending messages between processes. Possible values are `'json'` and `'advanced'`. See Advanced serialization for more details. **Default:** `'json'`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Allows closing the child process using an AbortSignal.
    * `killSignal` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The signal value to be used when the spawned process will be killed by timeout or abort signal. **Default:** `'SIGTERM'`.
    * `silent` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, stdin, stdout, and stderr of the child process will be piped to the parent process, otherwise they will be inherited from the parent process, see the `'pipe'` and `'inherit'` options for `child_process.spawn()`'s `stdio` for more details. **Default:** `false`.
    * `stdio` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See `child_process.spawn()`'s `stdio`. When this option is provided, it overrides `silent`. If the array variant is used, it must contain exactly one item with value `'ipc'` or an error will be thrown. For instance `[0, 1, 2, 'ipc']`.
    * `uid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the user identity of the process (see [`setuid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setuid.2.html)).
    * `windowsVerbatimArguments` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) No quoting or escaping of arguments is done on Windows. Ignored on Unix. **Default:** `false`.
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) In milliseconds the maximum amount of time the process is allowed to run. **Default:** `undefined`.
  * Returns: <ChildProcess>

The `child_process.fork()` method is a special case of `child_process.spawn()`
used specifically to spawn new Node.js processes. Like
`child_process.spawn()`, a `ChildProcess` object is returned. The returned
`ChildProcess` will have an additional communication channel built-in that
allows messages to be passed back and forth between the parent and child. See
`subprocess.send()` for details.

Keep in mind that spawned Node.js child processes are independent of the
parent with exception of the IPC communication channel that is established
between the two. Each process has its own memory, with their own V8 instances.
Because of the additional resource allocations required, spawning a large
number of child Node.js processes is not recommended.

By default, `child_process.fork()` will spawn new Node.js instances using the
`process.execPath` of the parent process. The `execPath` property in the
`options` object allows for an alternative execution path to be used.

Node.js processes launched with a custom `execPath` will communicate with the
parent process using the file descriptor (fd) identified using the environment
variable `NODE_CHANNEL_FD` on the child process.

Unlike the [`fork(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/fork.2.html) POSIX
system call, `child_process.fork()` does not clone the current process.

The `shell` option available in `child_process.spawn()` is not supported by
`child_process.fork()` and will be ignored if set.

If the `signal` option is enabled, calling `.abort()` on the corresponding
`AbortController` is similar to calling `.kill()` on the child process except
the error passed to the callback will be an `AbortError`:

    
    
    const { fork } = require('node:child_process');
    const process = require('node:process');
    
    if (process.argv[2] === 'child') {
      setTimeout(() => {
        console.log(`Hello from ${process.argv[2]}!`);
      }, 1_000);
    } else {
      const controller = new AbortController();
      const { signal } = controller;
      const child = fork(__filename, ['child'], { signal });
      child.on('error', (err) => {
        // This will be called with err being an AbortError if the controller aborts
      });
      controller.abort(); // Stops the child process
    }import { fork } from 'node:child_process';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    if (process.argv[2] === 'child') {
      setTimeout(() => {
        console.log(`Hello from ${process.argv[2]}!`);
      }, 1_000);
    } else {
      const controller = new AbortController();
      const { signal } = controller;
      const child = fork(import.meta.url, ['child'], { signal });
      child.on('error', (err) => {
        // This will be called with err being an AbortError if the controller aborts
      });
      controller.abort(); // Stops the child process
    }copy

#### `child_process.spawn(command[, args][, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.4.0, v14.18.0 | The `cwd` option can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v15.13.0, v14.18.0 | timeout was added.  
v15.11.0, v14.18.0 | killSignal for AbortSignal was added.  
v15.5.0, v14.17.0 | AbortSignal support was added.  
v13.2.0, v12.16.0 | The `serialization` option is supported now.  
v8.8.0 | The `windowsHide` option is supported now.  
v6.4.0 | The `argv0` option is supported now.  
v5.7.0 | The `shell` option is supported now.  
v0.1.90 | Added in: v0.1.90  
  
  * `command` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The command to run.
  * `args` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) List of string arguments.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `cwd` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> Current working directory of the child process.
    * `env` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Environment key-value pairs. **Default:** `process.env`.
    * `argv0` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Explicitly set the value of `argv[0]` sent to the child process. This will be set to `command` if not specified.
    * `stdio` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Child's stdio configuration (see `options.stdio`).
    * `detached` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Prepare child process to run independently of its parent process. Specific behavior depends on the platform (see `options.detached`).
    * `uid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the user identity of the process (see [`setuid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setuid.2.html)).
    * `gid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the group identity of the process (see [`setgid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setgid.2.html)).
    * `serialization` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Specify the kind of serialization used for sending messages between processes. Possible values are `'json'` and `'advanced'`. See Advanced serialization for more details. **Default:** `'json'`.
    * `shell` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If `true`, runs `command` inside of a shell. Uses `'/bin/sh'` on Unix, and `process.env.ComSpec` on Windows. A different shell can be specified as a string. See Shell requirements and Default Windows shell. **Default:** `false` (no shell).
    * `windowsVerbatimArguments` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) No quoting or escaping of arguments is done on Windows. Ignored on Unix. This is set to `true` automatically when `shell` is specified and is CMD. **Default:** `false`.
    * `windowsHide` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Hide the subprocess console window that would normally be created on Windows systems. **Default:** `false`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows aborting the child process using an AbortSignal.
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) In milliseconds the maximum amount of time the process is allowed to run. **Default:** `undefined`.
    * `killSignal` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The signal value to be used when the spawned process will be killed by timeout or abort signal. **Default:** `'SIGTERM'`.
  * Returns: <ChildProcess>

The `child_process.spawn()` method spawns a new process using the given
`command`, with command-line arguments in `args`. If omitted, `args` defaults
to an empty array.

**If the`shell` option is enabled, do not pass unsanitized user input to this
function. Any input containing shell metacharacters may be used to trigger
arbitrary command execution.**

A third argument may be used to specify additional options, with these
defaults:

    
    
    const defaults = {
      cwd: undefined,
      env: process.env,
    }; copy

Use `cwd` to specify the working directory from which the process is spawned.
If not given, the default is to inherit the current working directory. If
given, but the path does not exist, the child process emits an `ENOENT` error
and exits immediately. `ENOENT` is also emitted when the command does not
exist.

Use `env` to specify environment variables that will be visible to the new
process, the default is `process.env`.

`undefined` values in `env` will be ignored.

Example of running `ls -lh /usr`, capturing `stdout`, `stderr`, and the exit
code:

    
    
    const { spawn } = require('node:child_process');
    const ls = spawn('ls', ['-lh', '/usr']);
    
    ls.stdout.on('data', (data) => {
      console.log(`stdout: ${data}`);
    });
    
    ls.stderr.on('data', (data) => {
      console.error(`stderr: ${data}`);
    });
    
    ls.on('close', (code) => {
      console.log(`child process exited with code ${code}`);
    });import { spawn } from 'node:child_process';
    const ls = spawn('ls', ['-lh', '/usr']);
    
    ls.stdout.on('data', (data) => {
      console.log(`stdout: ${data}`);
    });
    
    ls.stderr.on('data', (data) => {
      console.error(`stderr: ${data}`);
    });
    
    ls.on('close', (code) => {
      console.log(`child process exited with code ${code}`);
    });copy

Example: A very elaborate way to run `ps ax | grep ssh`
    
    
    const { spawn } = require('node:child_process');
    const ps = spawn('ps', ['ax']);
    const grep = spawn('grep', ['ssh']);
    
    ps.stdout.on('data', (data) => {
      grep.stdin.write(data);
    });
    
    ps.stderr.on('data', (data) => {
      console.error(`ps stderr: ${data}`);
    });
    
    ps.on('close', (code) => {
      if (code !== 0) {
        console.log(`ps process exited with code ${code}`);
      }
      grep.stdin.end();
    });
    
    grep.stdout.on('data', (data) => {
      console.log(data.toString());
    });
    
    grep.stderr.on('data', (data) => {
      console.error(`grep stderr: ${data}`);
    });
    
    grep.on('close', (code) => {
      if (code !== 0) {
        console.log(`grep process exited with code ${code}`);
      }
    });import { spawn } from 'node:child_process';
    const ps = spawn('ps', ['ax']);
    const grep = spawn('grep', ['ssh']);
    
    ps.stdout.on('data', (data) => {
      grep.stdin.write(data);
    });
    
    ps.stderr.on('data', (data) => {
      console.error(`ps stderr: ${data}`);
    });
    
    ps.on('close', (code) => {
      if (code !== 0) {
        console.log(`ps process exited with code ${code}`);
      }
      grep.stdin.end();
    });
    
    grep.stdout.on('data', (data) => {
      console.log(data.toString());
    });
    
    grep.stderr.on('data', (data) => {
      console.error(`grep stderr: ${data}`);
    });
    
    grep.on('close', (code) => {
      if (code !== 0) {
        console.log(`grep process exited with code ${code}`);
      }
    });copy

Example of checking for failed `spawn`:

    
    
    const { spawn } = require('node:child_process');
    const subprocess = spawn('bad_command');
    
    subprocess.on('error', (err) => {
      console.error('Failed to start subprocess.');
    });import { spawn } from 'node:child_process';
    const subprocess = spawn('bad_command');
    
    subprocess.on('error', (err) => {
      console.error('Failed to start subprocess.');
    });copy

Certain platforms (macOS, Linux) will use the value of `argv[0]` for the
process title while others (Windows, SunOS) will use `command`.

Node.js overwrites `argv[0]` with `process.execPath` on startup, so
`process.argv[0]` in a Node.js child process will not match the `argv0`
parameter passed to `spawn` from the parent. Retrieve it with the
`process.argv0` property instead.

If the `signal` option is enabled, calling `.abort()` on the corresponding
`AbortController` is similar to calling `.kill()` on the child process except
the error passed to the callback will be an `AbortError`:

    
    
    const { spawn } = require('node:child_process');
    const controller = new AbortController();
    const { signal } = controller;
    const grep = spawn('grep', ['ssh'], { signal });
    grep.on('error', (err) => {
      // This will be called with err being an AbortError if the controller aborts
    });
    controller.abort(); // Stops the child processimport { spawn } from 'node:child_process';
    const controller = new AbortController();
    const { signal } = controller;
    const grep = spawn('grep', ['ssh'], { signal });
    grep.on('error', (err) => {
      // This will be called with err being an AbortError if the controller aborts
    });
    controller.abort(); // Stops the child processcopy

##### `options.detached`#

Added in: v0.7.10

On Windows, setting `options.detached` to `true` makes it possible for the
child process to continue running after the parent exits. The child process
will have its own console window. Once enabled for a child process, it cannot
be disabled.

On non-Windows platforms, if `options.detached` is set to `true`, the child
process will be made the leader of a new process group and session. Child
processes may continue running after the parent exits regardless of whether
they are detached or not. See [`setsid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/setsid.2.html) for more information.

By default, the parent will wait for the detached child process to exit. To
prevent the parent process from waiting for a given `subprocess` to exit, use
the `subprocess.unref()` method. Doing so will cause the parent process' event
loop to not include the child process in its reference count, allowing the
parent process to exit independently of the child process, unless there is an
established IPC channel between the child and the parent processes.

When using the `detached` option to start a long-running process, the process
will not stay running in the background after the parent exits unless it is
provided with a `stdio` configuration that is not connected to the parent. If
the parent process' `stdio` is inherited, the child process will remain
attached to the controlling terminal.

Example of a long-running process, by detaching and also ignoring its parent
`stdio` file descriptors, in order to ignore the parent's termination:

    
    
    const { spawn } = require('node:child_process');
    const process = require('node:process');
    
    const subprocess = spawn(process.argv[0], ['child_program.js'], {
      detached: true,
      stdio: 'ignore',
    });
    
    subprocess.unref();import { spawn } from 'node:child_process';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    const subprocess = spawn(process.argv[0], ['child_program.js'], {
      detached: true,
      stdio: 'ignore',
    });
    
    subprocess.unref();copy

Alternatively one can redirect the child process' output into files:

    
    
    const { openSync } = require('node:fs');
    const { spawn } = require('node:child_process');
    const out = openSync('./out.log', 'a');
    const err = openSync('./out.log', 'a');
    
    const subprocess = spawn('prg', [], {
      detached: true,
      stdio: [ 'ignore', out, err ],
    });
    
    subprocess.unref();import { openSync } from 'node:fs';
    import { spawn } from 'node:child_process';
    const out = openSync('./out.log', 'a');
    const err = openSync('./out.log', 'a');
    
    const subprocess = spawn('prg', [], {
      detached: true,
      stdio: [ 'ignore', out, err ],
    });
    
    subprocess.unref();copy

##### `options.stdio`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.6.0, v14.18.0 | Added the `overlapped` stdio flag.  
v3.3.1 | The value `0` is now accepted as a file descriptor.  
v0.7.10 | Added in: v0.7.10  
  
The `options.stdio` option is used to configure the pipes that are established
between the parent and child process. By default, the child's stdin, stdout,
and stderr are redirected to corresponding `subprocess.stdin`,
`subprocess.stdout`, and `subprocess.stderr` streams on the `ChildProcess`
object. This is equivalent to setting the `options.stdio` equal to `['pipe',
'pipe', 'pipe']`.

For convenience, `options.stdio` may be one of the following strings:

  * `'pipe'`: equivalent to `['pipe', 'pipe', 'pipe']` (the default)
  * `'overlapped'`: equivalent to `['overlapped', 'overlapped', 'overlapped']`
  * `'ignore'`: equivalent to `['ignore', 'ignore', 'ignore']`
  * `'inherit'`: equivalent to `['inherit', 'inherit', 'inherit']` or `[0, 1, 2]`

Otherwise, the value of `options.stdio` is an array where each index
corresponds to an fd in the child. The fds 0, 1, and 2 correspond to stdin,
stdout, and stderr, respectively. Additional fds can be specified to create
additional pipes between the parent and child. The value is one of the
following:

  1. `'pipe'`: Create a pipe between the child process and the parent process. The parent end of the pipe is exposed to the parent as a property on the `child_process` object as `subprocess.stdio[fd]`. Pipes created for fds 0, 1, and 2 are also available as `subprocess.stdin`, `subprocess.stdout` and `subprocess.stderr`, respectively. These are not actual Unix pipes and therefore the child process can not use them by their descriptor files, e.g. `/dev/fd/2` or `/dev/stdout`.

  2. `'overlapped'`: Same as `'pipe'` except that the `FILE_FLAG_OVERLAPPED` flag is set on the handle. This is necessary for overlapped I/O on the child process's stdio handles. See the [docs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/fileio/synchronous-and-asynchronous-i-o) for more details. This is exactly the same as `'pipe'` on non-Windows systems.

  3. `'ipc'`: Create an IPC channel for passing messages/file descriptors between parent and child. A `ChildProcess` may have at most one IPC stdio file descriptor. Setting this option enables the `subprocess.send()` method. If the child process is a Node.js instance, the presence of an IPC channel will enable `process.send()` and `process.disconnect()` methods, as well as `'disconnect'` and `'message'` events within the child process.

Accessing the IPC channel fd in any way other than `process.send()` or using
the IPC channel with a child process that is not a Node.js instance is not
supported.

  4. `'ignore'`: Instructs Node.js to ignore the fd in the child. While Node.js will always open fds 0, 1, and 2 for the processes it spawns, setting the fd to `'ignore'` will cause Node.js to open `/dev/null` and attach it to the child's fd.

  5. `'inherit'`: Pass through the corresponding stdio stream to/from the parent process. In the first three positions, this is equivalent to `process.stdin`, `process.stdout`, and `process.stderr`, respectively. In any other position, equivalent to `'ignore'`.

  6. <Stream> object: Share a readable or writable stream that refers to a tty, file, socket, or a pipe with the child process. The stream's underlying file descriptor is duplicated in the child process to the fd that corresponds to the index in the `stdio` array. The stream must have an underlying descriptor (file streams do not start until the `'open'` event has occurred). **NOTE:** While it is technically possible to pass `stdin` as a writable or `stdout`/`stderr` as readable, it is not recommended. Readable and writable streams are designed with distinct behaviors, and using them incorrectly (e.g., passing a readable stream where a writable stream is expected) can lead to unexpected results or errors. This practice is discouraged as it may result in undefined behavior or dropped callbacks if the stream encounters errors. Always ensure that `stdin` is used as writable and `stdout`/`stderr` as readable to maintain the intended flow of data between the parent and child processes.

  7. Positive integer: The integer value is interpreted as a file descriptor that is open in the parent process. It is shared with the child process, similar to how <Stream> objects can be shared. Passing sockets is not supported on Windows.

  8. `null`, `undefined`: Use default value. For stdio fds 0, 1, and 2 (in other words, stdin, stdout, and stderr) a pipe is created. For fd 3 and up, the default is `'ignore'`.

    
    
    const { spawn } = require('node:child_process');
    const process = require('node:process');
    
    // Child will use parent's stdios.
    spawn('prg', [], { stdio: 'inherit' });
    
    // Spawn child sharing only stderr.
    spawn('prg', [], { stdio: ['pipe', 'pipe', process.stderr] });
    
    // Open an extra fd=4, to interact with programs presenting a
    // startd-style interface.
    spawn('prg', [], { stdio: ['pipe', null, null, null, 'pipe'] });import { spawn } from 'node:child_process';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    // Child will use parent's stdios.
    spawn('prg', [], { stdio: 'inherit' });
    
    // Spawn child sharing only stderr.
    spawn('prg', [], { stdio: ['pipe', 'pipe', process.stderr] });
    
    // Open an extra fd=4, to interact with programs presenting a
    // startd-style interface.
    spawn('prg', [], { stdio: ['pipe', null, null, null, 'pipe'] });copy

_It is worth noting that when an IPC channel is established between the parent
and child processes, and the child process is a Node.js instance, the child
process is launched with the IPC channel unreferenced (using`unref()`) until
the child process registers an event handler for the `'disconnect'` event or
the `'message'` event. This allows the child process to exit normally without
the process being held open by the open IPC channel._ See also:
`child_process.exec()` and `child_process.fork()`.

### Synchronous process creation#

The `child_process.spawnSync()`, `child_process.execSync()`, and
`child_process.execFileSync()` methods are synchronous and will block the
Node.js event loop, pausing execution of any additional code until the spawned
process exits.

Blocking calls like these are mostly useful for simplifying general-purpose
scripting tasks and for simplifying the loading/processing of application
configuration at startup.

#### `child_process.execFileSync(file[, args][, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.4.0, v14.18.0 | The `cwd` option can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v10.10.0 | The `input` option can now be any `TypedArray` or a `DataView`.  
v8.8.0 | The `windowsHide` option is supported now.  
v8.0.0 | The `input` option can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v6.2.1, v4.5.0 | The `encoding` option can now explicitly be set to `buffer`.  
v0.11.12 | Added in: v0.11.12  
  
  * `file` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The name or path of the executable file to run.
  * `args` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) List of string arguments.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `cwd` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> Current working directory of the child process.
    * `input` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) The value which will be passed as stdin to the spawned process. If `stdio[0]` is set to `'pipe'`, Supplying this value will override `stdio[0]`.
    * `stdio` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) Child's stdio configuration. See `child_process.spawn()`'s `stdio`. `stderr` by default will be output to the parent process' stderr unless `stdio` is specified. **Default:** `'pipe'`.
    * `env` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Environment key-value pairs. **Default:** `process.env`.
    * `uid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the user identity of the process (see [`setuid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setuid.2.html)).
    * `gid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the group identity of the process (see [`setgid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setgid.2.html)).
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) In milliseconds the maximum amount of time the process is allowed to run. **Default:** `undefined`.
    * `killSignal` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The signal value to be used when the spawned process will be killed. **Default:** `'SIGTERM'`.
    * `maxBuffer` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Largest amount of data in bytes allowed on stdout or stderr. If exceeded, the child process is terminated. See caveat at `maxBuffer` and Unicode. **Default:** `1024 * 1024`.
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding used for all stdio inputs and outputs. **Default:** `'buffer'`.
    * `windowsHide` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Hide the subprocess console window that would normally be created on Windows systems. **Default:** `false`.
    * `shell` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If `true`, runs `command` inside of a shell. Uses `'/bin/sh'` on Unix, and `process.env.ComSpec` on Windows. A different shell can be specified as a string. See Shell requirements and Default Windows shell. **Default:** `false` (no shell).
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The stdout from the command.

The `child_process.execFileSync()` method is generally identical to
`child_process.execFile()` with the exception that the method will not return
until the child process has fully closed. When a timeout has been encountered
and `killSignal` is sent, the method won't return until the process has
completely exited.

If the child process intercepts and handles the `SIGTERM` signal and does not
exit, the parent process will still wait until the child process has exited.

If the process times out or has a non-zero exit code, this method will throw
an `Error` that will include the full result of the underlying
`child_process.spawnSync()`.

**If the`shell` option is enabled, do not pass unsanitized user input to this
function. Any input containing shell metacharacters may be used to trigger
arbitrary command execution.**

    
    
    const { execFileSync } = require('node:child_process');
    
    try {
      const stdout = execFileSync('my-script.sh', ['my-arg'], {
        // Capture stdout and stderr from child process. Overrides the
        // default behavior of streaming child stderr to the parent stderr
        stdio: 'pipe',
    
        // Use utf8 encoding for stdio pipes
        encoding: 'utf8',
      });
    
      console.log(stdout);
    } catch (err) {
      if (err.code) {
        // Spawning child process failed
        console.error(err.code);
      } else {
        // Child was spawned but exited with non-zero exit code
        // Error contains any stdout and stderr from the child
        const { stdout, stderr } = err;
    
        console.error({ stdout, stderr });
      }
    }import { execFileSync } from 'node:child_process';
    
    try {
      const stdout = execFileSync('my-script.sh', ['my-arg'], {
        // Capture stdout and stderr from child process. Overrides the
        // default behavior of streaming child stderr to the parent stderr
        stdio: 'pipe',
    
        // Use utf8 encoding for stdio pipes
        encoding: 'utf8',
      });
    
      console.log(stdout);
    } catch (err) {
      if (err.code) {
        // Spawning child process failed
        console.error(err.code);
      } else {
        // Child was spawned but exited with non-zero exit code
        // Error contains any stdout and stderr from the child
        const { stdout, stderr } = err;
    
        console.error({ stdout, stderr });
      }
    }copy

#### `child_process.execSync(command[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.4.0, v14.18.0 | The `cwd` option can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v10.10.0 | The `input` option can now be any `TypedArray` or a `DataView`.  
v8.8.0 | The `windowsHide` option is supported now.  
v8.0.0 | The `input` option can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v0.11.12 | Added in: v0.11.12  
  
  * `command` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The command to run.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `cwd` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> Current working directory of the child process.
    * `input` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) The value which will be passed as stdin to the spawned process. If `stdio[0]` is set to `'pipe'`, Supplying this value will override `stdio[0]`.
    * `stdio` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) Child's stdio configuration. See `child_process.spawn()`'s `stdio`. `stderr` by default will be output to the parent process' stderr unless `stdio` is specified. **Default:** `'pipe'`.
    * `env` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Environment key-value pairs. **Default:** `process.env`.
    * `shell` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Shell to execute the command with. See Shell requirements and Default Windows shell. **Default:** `'/bin/sh'` on Unix, `process.env.ComSpec` on Windows.
    * `uid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the user identity of the process. (See [`setuid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setuid.2.html)).
    * `gid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the group identity of the process. (See [`setgid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setgid.2.html)).
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) In milliseconds the maximum amount of time the process is allowed to run. **Default:** `undefined`.
    * `killSignal` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The signal value to be used when the spawned process will be killed. **Default:** `'SIGTERM'`.
    * `maxBuffer` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Largest amount of data in bytes allowed on stdout or stderr. If exceeded, the child process is terminated and any output is truncated. See caveat at `maxBuffer` and Unicode. **Default:** `1024 * 1024`.
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding used for all stdio inputs and outputs. **Default:** `'buffer'`.
    * `windowsHide` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Hide the subprocess console window that would normally be created on Windows systems. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The stdout from the command.

The `child_process.execSync()` method is generally identical to
`child_process.exec()` with the exception that the method will not return
until the child process has fully closed. When a timeout has been encountered
and `killSignal` is sent, the method won't return until the process has
completely exited. If the child process intercepts and handles the `SIGTERM`
signal and doesn't exit, the parent process will wait until the child process
has exited.

If the process times out or has a non-zero exit code, this method will throw.
The `Error` object will contain the entire result from
`child_process.spawnSync()`.

**Never pass unsanitized user input to this function. Any input containing
shell metacharacters may be used to trigger arbitrary command execution.**

#### `child_process.spawnSync(command[, args][, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.4.0, v14.18.0 | The `cwd` option can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v10.10.0 | The `input` option can now be any `TypedArray` or a `DataView`.  
v8.8.0 | The `windowsHide` option is supported now.  
v8.0.0 | The `input` option can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v5.7.0 | The `shell` option is supported now.  
v6.2.1, v4.5.0 | The `encoding` option can now explicitly be set to `buffer`.  
v0.11.12 | Added in: v0.11.12  
  
  * `command` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The command to run.
  * `args` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) List of string arguments.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `cwd` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> Current working directory of the child process.
    * `input` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) The value which will be passed as stdin to the spawned process. If `stdio[0]` is set to `'pipe'`, Supplying this value will override `stdio[0]`.
    * `argv0` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Explicitly set the value of `argv[0]` sent to the child process. This will be set to `command` if not specified.
    * `stdio` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) Child's stdio configuration. See `child_process.spawn()`'s `stdio`. **Default:** `'pipe'`.
    * `env` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Environment key-value pairs. **Default:** `process.env`.
    * `uid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the user identity of the process (see [`setuid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setuid.2.html)).
    * `gid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the group identity of the process (see [`setgid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setgid.2.html)).
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) In milliseconds the maximum amount of time the process is allowed to run. **Default:** `undefined`.
    * `killSignal` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The signal value to be used when the spawned process will be killed. **Default:** `'SIGTERM'`.
    * `maxBuffer` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Largest amount of data in bytes allowed on stdout or stderr. If exceeded, the child process is terminated and any output is truncated. See caveat at `maxBuffer` and Unicode. **Default:** `1024 * 1024`.
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding used for all stdio inputs and outputs. **Default:** `'buffer'`.
    * `shell` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If `true`, runs `command` inside of a shell. Uses `'/bin/sh'` on Unix, and `process.env.ComSpec` on Windows. A different shell can be specified as a string. See Shell requirements and Default Windows shell. **Default:** `false` (no shell).
    * `windowsVerbatimArguments` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) No quoting or escaping of arguments is done on Windows. Ignored on Unix. This is set to `true` automatically when `shell` is specified and is CMD. **Default:** `false`.
    * `windowsHide` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Hide the subprocess console window that would normally be created on Windows systems. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `pid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Pid of the child process.
    * `output` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) Array of results from stdio output.
    * `stdout` <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The contents of `output[1]`.
    * `stderr` <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The contents of `output[2]`.
    * `status` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) The exit code of the subprocess, or `null` if the subprocess terminated due to a signal.
    * `signal` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) The signal used to kill the subprocess, or `null` if the subprocess did not terminate due to a signal.
    * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) The error object if the child process failed or timed out.

The `child_process.spawnSync()` method is generally identical to
`child_process.spawn()` with the exception that the function will not return
until the child process has fully closed. When a timeout has been encountered
and `killSignal` is sent, the method won't return until the process has
completely exited. If the process intercepts and handles the `SIGTERM` signal
and doesn't exit, the parent process will wait until the child process has
exited.

**If the`shell` option is enabled, do not pass unsanitized user input to this
function. Any input containing shell metacharacters may be used to trigger
arbitrary command execution.**

### Class: `ChildProcess`#

Added in: v2.2.0

  * Extends: <EventEmitter>

Instances of the `ChildProcess` represent spawned child processes.

Instances of `ChildProcess` are not intended to be created directly. Rather,
use the `child_process.spawn()`, `child_process.exec()`,
`child_process.execFile()`, or `child_process.fork()` methods to create
instances of `ChildProcess`.

#### Event: `'close'`#

Added in: v0.7.7

  * `code` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The exit code if the child process exited on its own.
  * `signal` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The signal by which the child process was terminated.

The `'close'` event is emitted after a process has ended _and_ the stdio
streams of a child process have been closed. This is distinct from the
`'exit'` event, since multiple processes might share the same stdio streams.
The `'close'` event will always emit after `'exit'` was already emitted, or
`'error'` if the child process failed to spawn.

    
    
    const { spawn } = require('node:child_process');
    const ls = spawn('ls', ['-lh', '/usr']);
    
    ls.stdout.on('data', (data) => {
      console.log(`stdout: ${data}`);
    });
    
    ls.on('close', (code) => {
      console.log(`child process close all stdio with code ${code}`);
    });
    
    ls.on('exit', (code) => {
      console.log(`child process exited with code ${code}`);
    });import { spawn } from 'node:child_process';
    const ls = spawn('ls', ['-lh', '/usr']);
    
    ls.stdout.on('data', (data) => {
      console.log(`stdout: ${data}`);
    });
    
    ls.on('close', (code) => {
      console.log(`child process close all stdio with code ${code}`);
    });
    
    ls.on('exit', (code) => {
      console.log(`child process exited with code ${code}`);
    });copy

#### Event: `'disconnect'`#

Added in: v0.7.2

The `'disconnect'` event is emitted after calling the
`subprocess.disconnect()` method in parent process or `process.disconnect()`
in child process. After disconnecting it is no longer possible to send or
receive messages, and the `subprocess.connected` property is `false`.

#### Event: `'error'`#

  * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) The error.

The `'error'` event is emitted whenever:

  * The process could not be spawned.
  * The process could not be killed.
  * Sending a message to the child process failed.
  * The child process was aborted via the `signal` option.

The `'exit'` event may or may not fire after an error has occurred. When
listening to both the `'exit'` and `'error'` events, guard against
accidentally invoking handler functions multiple times.

See also `subprocess.kill()` and `subprocess.send()`.

#### Event: `'exit'`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `code` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The exit code if the child process exited on its own.
  * `signal` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The signal by which the child process was terminated.

The `'exit'` event is emitted after the child process ends. If the process
exited, `code` is the final exit code of the process, otherwise `null`. If the
process terminated due to receipt of a signal, `signal` is the string name of
the signal, otherwise `null`. One of the two will always be non-`null`.

When the `'exit'` event is triggered, child process stdio streams might still
be open.

Node.js establishes signal handlers for `SIGINT` and `SIGTERM` and Node.js
processes will not terminate immediately due to receipt of those signals.
Rather, Node.js will perform a sequence of cleanup actions and then will re-
raise the handled signal.

See [`waitpid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/waitpid.2.html).

#### Event: `'message'`#

Added in: v0.5.9

  * `message` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) A parsed JSON object or primitive value.
  * `sendHandle` <Handle> | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) `undefined` or a `net.Socket`, `net.Server`, or `dgram.Socket` object.

The `'message'` event is triggered when a child process uses `process.send()`
to send messages.

The message goes through serialization and parsing. The resulting message
might not be the same as what is originally sent.

If the `serialization` option was set to `'advanced'` used when spawning the
child process, the `message` argument can contain data that JSON is not able
to represent. See Advanced serialization for more details.

#### Event: `'spawn'`#

Added in: v15.1.0, v14.17.0

The `'spawn'` event is emitted once the child process has spawned
successfully. If the child process does not spawn successfully, the `'spawn'`
event is not emitted and the `'error'` event is emitted instead.

If emitted, the `'spawn'` event comes before all other events and before any
data is received via `stdout` or `stderr`.

The `'spawn'` event will fire regardless of whether an error occurs **within**
the spawned process. For example, if `bash some-command` spawns successfully,
the `'spawn'` event will fire, though `bash` may fail to spawn `some-command`.
This caveat also applies when using `{ shell: true }`.

#### `subprocess.channel`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | The object no longer accidentally exposes native C++ bindings.  
v7.1.0 | Added in: v7.1.0  
  
  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) A pipe representing the IPC channel to the child process.

The `subprocess.channel` property is a reference to the child's IPC channel.
If no IPC channel exists, this property is `undefined`.

##### `subprocess.channel.ref()`#

Added in: v7.1.0

This method makes the IPC channel keep the event loop of the parent process
running if `.unref()` has been called before.

##### `subprocess.channel.unref()`#

Added in: v7.1.0

This method makes the IPC channel not keep the event loop of the parent
process running, and lets it finish even while the channel is open.

#### `subprocess.connected`#

Added in: v0.7.2

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Set to `false` after `subprocess.disconnect()` is called.

The `subprocess.connected` property indicates whether it is still possible to
send and receive messages from a child process. When `subprocess.connected` is
`false`, it is no longer possible to send or receive messages.

#### `subprocess.disconnect()`#

Added in: v0.7.2

Closes the IPC channel between parent and child processes, allowing the child
process to exit gracefully once there are no other connections keeping it
alive. After calling this method the `subprocess.connected` and
`process.connected` properties in both the parent and child processes
(respectively) will be set to `false`, and it will be no longer possible to
pass messages between the processes.

The `'disconnect'` event will be emitted when there are no messages in the
process of being received. This will most often be triggered immediately after
calling `subprocess.disconnect()`.

When the child process is a Node.js instance (e.g. spawned using
`child_process.fork()`), the `process.disconnect()` method can be invoked
within the child process to close the IPC channel as well.

#### `subprocess.exitCode`#

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `subprocess.exitCode` property indicates the exit code of the child
process. If the child process is still running, the field will be `null`.

#### `subprocess.kill([signal])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `signal` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `subprocess.kill()` method sends a signal to the child process. If no
argument is given, the process will be sent the `'SIGTERM'` signal. See
[`signal(7)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/signal.7.html) for a list
of available signals. This function returns `true` if
[`kill(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/kill.2.html) succeeds, and
`false` otherwise.

    
    
    const { spawn } = require('node:child_process');
    const grep = spawn('grep', ['ssh']);
    
    grep.on('close', (code, signal) => {
      console.log(
        `child process terminated due to receipt of signal ${signal}`);
    });
    
    // Send SIGHUP to process.
    grep.kill('SIGHUP');import { spawn } from 'node:child_process';
    const grep = spawn('grep', ['ssh']);
    
    grep.on('close', (code, signal) => {
      console.log(
        `child process terminated due to receipt of signal ${signal}`);
    });
    
    // Send SIGHUP to process.
    grep.kill('SIGHUP');copy

The `ChildProcess` object may emit an `'error'` event if the signal cannot be
delivered. Sending a signal to a child process that has already exited is not
an error but may have unforeseen consequences. Specifically, if the process
identifier (PID) has been reassigned to another process, the signal will be
delivered to that process instead which can have unexpected results.

While the function is called `kill`, the signal delivered to the child process
may not actually terminate the process.

See [`kill(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/kill.2.html) for
reference.

On Windows, where POSIX signals do not exist, the `signal` argument will be
ignored except for `'SIGKILL'`, `'SIGTERM'`, `'SIGINT'` and `'SIGQUIT'`, and
the process will always be killed forcefully and abruptly (similar to
`'SIGKILL'`). See Signal Events for more details.

On Linux, child processes of child processes will not be terminated when
attempting to kill their parent. This is likely to happen when running a new
process in a shell or with the use of the `shell` option of `ChildProcess`:

    
    
    const { spawn } = require('node:child_process');
    
    const subprocess = spawn(
      'sh',
      [
        '-c',
        `node -e "setInterval(() => {
          console.log(process.pid, 'is alive')
        }, 500);"`,
      ], {
        stdio: ['inherit', 'inherit', 'inherit'],
      },
    );
    
    setTimeout(() => {
      subprocess.kill(); // Does not terminate the Node.js process in the shell.
    }, 2000);import { spawn } from 'node:child_process';
    
    const subprocess = spawn(
      'sh',
      [
        '-c',
        `node -e "setInterval(() => {
          console.log(process.pid, 'is alive')
        }, 500);"`,
      ], {
        stdio: ['inherit', 'inherit', 'inherit'],
      },
    );
    
    setTimeout(() => {
      subprocess.kill(); // Does not terminate the Node.js process in the shell.
    }, 2000);copy

#### `subprocess[Symbol.dispose]()`#

Added in: v20.5.0, v18.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Calls `subprocess.kill()` with `'SIGTERM'`.

#### `subprocess.killed`#

Added in: v0.5.10

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Set to `true` after `subprocess.kill()` is used to successfully send a signal to the child process.

The `subprocess.killed` property indicates whether the child process
successfully received a signal from `subprocess.kill()`. The `killed` property
does not indicate that the child process has been terminated.

#### `subprocess.pid`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

Returns the process identifier (PID) of the child process. If the child
process fails to spawn due to errors, then the value is `undefined` and
`error` is emitted.

    
    
    const { spawn } = require('node:child_process');
    const grep = spawn('grep', ['ssh']);
    
    console.log(`Spawned child pid: ${grep.pid}`);
    grep.stdin.end();import { spawn } from 'node:child_process';
    const grep = spawn('grep', ['ssh']);
    
    console.log(`Spawned child pid: ${grep.pid}`);
    grep.stdin.end();copy

#### `subprocess.ref()`#

Added in: v0.7.10

Calling `subprocess.ref()` after making a call to `subprocess.unref()` will
restore the removed reference count for the child process, forcing the parent
process to wait for the child process to exit before exiting itself.

    
    
    const { spawn } = require('node:child_process');
    const process = require('node:process');
    
    const subprocess = spawn(process.argv[0], ['child_program.js'], {
      detached: true,
      stdio: 'ignore',
    });
    
    subprocess.unref();
    subprocess.ref();import { spawn } from 'node:child_process';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    const subprocess = spawn(process.argv[0], ['child_program.js'], {
      detached: true,
      stdio: 'ignore',
    });
    
    subprocess.unref();
    subprocess.ref();copy

#### `subprocess.send(message[, sendHandle[, options]][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v5.8.0 | The `options` parameter, and the `keepOpen` option in particular, is supported now.  
v5.0.0 | This method returns a boolean for flow control now.  
v4.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is supported now.  
v0.5.9 | Added in: v0.5.9  
  
  * `message` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * `sendHandle` <Handle> | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) `undefined`, or a `net.Socket`, `net.Server`, or `dgram.Socket` object.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The `options` argument, if present, is an object used to parameterize the sending of certain types of handles. `options` supports the following properties: 
    * `keepOpen` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) A value that can be used when passing instances of `net.Socket`. When `true`, the socket is kept open in the sending process. **Default:** `false`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

When an IPC channel has been established between the parent and child
processes ( i.e. when using `child_process.fork()`), the `subprocess.send()`
method can be used to send messages to the child process. When the child
process is a Node.js instance, these messages can be received via the
`'message'` event.

The message goes through serialization and parsing. The resulting message
might not be the same as what is originally sent.

For example, in the parent script:

    
    
    const { fork } = require('node:child_process');
    const forkedProcess = fork(`${__dirname}/sub.js`);
    
    forkedProcess.on('message', (message) => {
      console.log('PARENT got message:', message);
    });
    
    // Causes the child to print: CHILD got message: { hello: 'world' }
    forkedProcess.send({ hello: 'world' });import { fork } from 'node:child_process';
    const forkedProcess = fork(`${import.meta.dirname}/sub.js`);
    
    forkedProcess.on('message', (message) => {
      console.log('PARENT got message:', message);
    });
    
    // Causes the child to print: CHILD got message: { hello: 'world' }
    forkedProcess.send({ hello: 'world' });copy

And then the child script, `'sub.js'` might look like this:

    
    
    process.on('message', (message) => {
      console.log('CHILD got message:', message);
    });
    
    // Causes the parent to print: PARENT got message: { foo: 'bar', baz: null }
    process.send({ foo: 'bar', baz: NaN }); copy

Child Node.js processes will have a `process.send()` method of their own that
allows the child process to send messages back to the parent process.

There is a special case when sending a `{cmd: 'NODE_foo'}` message. Messages
containing a `NODE_` prefix in the `cmd` property are reserved for use within
Node.js core and will not be emitted in the child's `'message'` event. Rather,
such messages are emitted using the `'internalMessage'` event and are consumed
internally by Node.js. Applications should avoid using such messages or
listening for `'internalMessage'` events as it is subject to change without
notice.

The optional `sendHandle` argument that may be passed to `subprocess.send()`
is for passing a TCP server or socket object to the child process. The child
process will receive the object as the second argument passed to the callback
function registered on the `'message'` event. Any data that is received and
buffered in the socket will not be sent to the child. Sending IPC sockets is
not supported on Windows.

The optional `callback` is a function that is invoked after the message is
sent but before the child process may have received it. The function is called
with a single argument: `null` on success, or an `Error` object on failure.

If no `callback` function is provided and the message cannot be sent, an
`'error'` event will be emitted by the `ChildProcess` object. This can happen,
for instance, when the child process has already exited.

`subprocess.send()` will return `false` if the channel has closed or when the
backlog of unsent messages exceeds a threshold that makes it unwise to send
more. Otherwise, the method returns `true`. The `callback` function can be
used to implement flow control.

##### Example: sending a server object#

The `sendHandle` argument can be used, for instance, to pass the handle of a
TCP server object to the child process as illustrated in the example below:

    
    
    const { fork } = require('node:child_process');
    const { createServer } = require('node:net');
    
    const subprocess = fork('subprocess.js');
    
    // Open up the server object and send the handle.
    const server = createServer();
    server.on('connection', (socket) => {
      socket.end('handled by parent');
    });
    server.listen(1337, () => {
      subprocess.send('server', server);
    });import { fork } from 'node:child_process';
    import { createServer } from 'node:net';
    
    const subprocess = fork('subprocess.js');
    
    // Open up the server object and send the handle.
    const server = createServer();
    server.on('connection', (socket) => {
      socket.end('handled by parent');
    });
    server.listen(1337, () => {
      subprocess.send('server', server);
    });copy

The child process would then receive the server object as:

    
    
    process.on('message', (m, server) => {
      if (m === 'server') {
        server.on('connection', (socket) => {
          socket.end('handled by child');
        });
      }
    }); copy

Once the server is now shared between the parent and child, some connections
can be handled by the parent and some by the child.

While the example above uses a server created using the `node:net` module,
`node:dgram` module servers use exactly the same workflow with the exceptions
of listening on a `'message'` event instead of `'connection'` and using
`server.bind()` instead of `server.listen()`. This is, however, only supported
on Unix platforms.

##### Example: sending a socket object#

Similarly, the `sendHandler` argument can be used to pass the handle of a
socket to the child process. The example below spawns two children that each
handle connections with "normal" or "special" priority:

    
    
    const { fork } = require('node:child_process');
    const { createServer } = require('node:net');
    
    const normal = fork('subprocess.js', ['normal']);
    const special = fork('subprocess.js', ['special']);
    
    // Open up the server and send sockets to child. Use pauseOnConnect to prevent
    // the sockets from being read before they are sent to the child process.
    const server = createServer({ pauseOnConnect: true });
    server.on('connection', (socket) => {
    
      // If this is special priority...
      if (socket.remoteAddress === '74.125.127.100') {
        special.send('socket', socket);
        return;
      }
      // This is normal priority.
      normal.send('socket', socket);
    });
    server.listen(1337);import { fork } from 'node:child_process';
    import { createServer } from 'node:net';
    
    const normal = fork('subprocess.js', ['normal']);
    const special = fork('subprocess.js', ['special']);
    
    // Open up the server and send sockets to child. Use pauseOnConnect to prevent
    // the sockets from being read before they are sent to the child process.
    const server = createServer({ pauseOnConnect: true });
    server.on('connection', (socket) => {
    
      // If this is special priority...
      if (socket.remoteAddress === '74.125.127.100') {
        special.send('socket', socket);
        return;
      }
      // This is normal priority.
      normal.send('socket', socket);
    });
    server.listen(1337);copy

The `subprocess.js` would receive the socket handle as the second argument
passed to the event callback function:

    
    
    process.on('message', (m, socket) => {
      if (m === 'socket') {
        if (socket) {
          // Check that the client socket exists.
          // It is possible for the socket to be closed between the time it is
          // sent and the time it is received in the child process.
          socket.end(`Request handled with ${process.argv[2]} priority`);
        }
      }
    }); copy

Do not use `.maxConnections` on a socket that has been passed to a subprocess.
The parent cannot track when the socket is destroyed.

Any `'message'` handlers in the subprocess should verify that `socket` exists,
as the connection may have been closed during the time it takes to send the
connection to the child.

#### `subprocess.signalCode`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type)

The `subprocess.signalCode` property indicates the signal received by the
child process if any, else `null`.

#### `subprocess.spawnargs`#

  * [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array)

The `subprocess.spawnargs` property represents the full list of command-line
arguments the child process was launched with.

#### `subprocess.spawnfile`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `subprocess.spawnfile` property indicates the executable file name of the
child process that is launched.

For `child_process.fork()`, its value will be equal to `process.execPath`. For
`child_process.spawn()`, its value will be the name of the executable file.
For `child_process.exec()`, its value will be the name of the shell in which
the child process is launched.

#### `subprocess.stderr`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * <stream.Readable> | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

A `Readable Stream` that represents the child process's `stderr`.

If the child process was spawned with `stdio[2]` set to anything other than
`'pipe'`, then this will be `null`.

`subprocess.stderr` is an alias for `subprocess.stdio[2]`. Both properties
will refer to the same value.

The `subprocess.stderr` property can be `null` or `undefined` if the child
process could not be successfully spawned.

#### `subprocess.stdin`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * <stream.Writable> | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

A `Writable Stream` that represents the child process's `stdin`.

If a child process waits to read all of its input, the child process will not
continue until this stream has been closed via `end()`.

If the child process was spawned with `stdio[0]` set to anything other than
`'pipe'`, then this will be `null`.

`subprocess.stdin` is an alias for `subprocess.stdio[0]`. Both properties will
refer to the same value.

The `subprocess.stdin` property can be `null` or `undefined` if the child
process could not be successfully spawned.

#### `subprocess.stdio`#

Added in: v0.7.10

  * [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array)

A sparse array of pipes to the child process, corresponding with positions in
the `stdio` option passed to `child_process.spawn()` that have been set to the
value `'pipe'`. `subprocess.stdio[0]`, `subprocess.stdio[1]`, and
`subprocess.stdio[2]` are also available as `subprocess.stdin`,
`subprocess.stdout`, and `subprocess.stderr`, respectively.

In the following example, only the child's fd `1` (stdout) is configured as a
pipe, so only the parent's `subprocess.stdio[1]` is a stream, all other values
in the array are `null`.

    
    
    const assert = require('node:assert');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const child_process = require('node:child_process');
    
    const subprocess = child_process.spawn('ls', {
      stdio: [
        0, // Use parent's stdin for child.
        'pipe', // Pipe child's stdout to parent.
        fs.openSync('err.out', 'w'), // Direct child's stderr to a file.
      ],
    });
    
    assert.strictEqual(subprocess.stdio[0], null);
    assert.strictEqual(subprocess.stdio[0], subprocess.stdin);
    
    assert(subprocess.stdout);
    assert.strictEqual(subprocess.stdio[1], subprocess.stdout);
    
    assert.strictEqual(subprocess.stdio[2], null);
    assert.strictEqual(subprocess.stdio[2], subprocess.stderr);import assert from 'node:assert';
    import fs from 'node:fs';
    import child_process from 'node:child_process';
    
    const subprocess = child_process.spawn('ls', {
      stdio: [
        0, // Use parent's stdin for child.
        'pipe', // Pipe child's stdout to parent.
        fs.openSync('err.out', 'w'), // Direct child's stderr to a file.
      ],
    });
    
    assert.strictEqual(subprocess.stdio[0], null);
    assert.strictEqual(subprocess.stdio[0], subprocess.stdin);
    
    assert(subprocess.stdout);
    assert.strictEqual(subprocess.stdio[1], subprocess.stdout);
    
    assert.strictEqual(subprocess.stdio[2], null);
    assert.strictEqual(subprocess.stdio[2], subprocess.stderr);copy

The `subprocess.stdio` property can be `undefined` if the child process could
not be successfully spawned.

#### `subprocess.stdout`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * <stream.Readable> | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

A `Readable Stream` that represents the child process's `stdout`.

If the child process was spawned with `stdio[1]` set to anything other than
`'pipe'`, then this will be `null`.

`subprocess.stdout` is an alias for `subprocess.stdio[1]`. Both properties
will refer to the same value.

    
    
    const { spawn } = require('node:child_process');
    
    const subprocess = spawn('ls');
    
    subprocess.stdout.on('data', (data) => {
      console.log(`Received chunk ${data}`);
    });import { spawn } from 'node:child_process';
    
    const subprocess = spawn('ls');
    
    subprocess.stdout.on('data', (data) => {
      console.log(`Received chunk ${data}`);
    });copy

The `subprocess.stdout` property can be `null` or `undefined` if the child
process could not be successfully spawned.

#### `subprocess.unref()`#

Added in: v0.7.10

By default, the parent process will wait for the detached child process to
exit. To prevent the parent process from waiting for a given `subprocess` to
exit, use the `subprocess.unref()` method. Doing so will cause the parent's
event loop to not include the child process in its reference count, allowing
the parent to exit independently of the child, unless there is an established
IPC channel between the child and the parent processes.

    
    
    const { spawn } = require('node:child_process');
    const process = require('node:process');
    
    const subprocess = spawn(process.argv[0], ['child_program.js'], {
      detached: true,
      stdio: 'ignore',
    });
    
    subprocess.unref();import { spawn } from 'node:child_process';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    const subprocess = spawn(process.argv[0], ['child_program.js'], {
      detached: true,
      stdio: 'ignore',
    });
    
    subprocess.unref();copy

### `maxBuffer` and Unicode#

The `maxBuffer` option specifies the largest number of bytes allowed on
`stdout` or `stderr`. If this value is exceeded, then the child process is
terminated. This impacts output that includes multibyte character encodings
such as UTF-8 or UTF-16. For instance, `console.log('中文测试')` will send 13
UTF-8 encoded bytes to `stdout` although there are only 4 characters.

### Shell requirements#

The shell should understand the `-c` switch. If the shell is `'cmd.exe'`, it
should understand the `/d /s /c` switches and command-line parsing should be
compatible.

### Default Windows shell#

Although Microsoft specifies `%COMSPEC%` must contain the path to `'cmd.exe'`
in the root environment, child processes are not always subject to the same
requirement. Thus, in `child_process` functions where a shell can be spawned,
`'cmd.exe'` is used as a fallback if `process.env.ComSpec` is unavailable.

### Advanced serialization#

Added in: v13.2.0, v12.16.0

Child processes support a serialization mechanism for IPC that is based on the
serialization API of the `node:v8` module, based on the [HTML structured clone
algorithm](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm). This is generally
more powerful and supports more built-in JavaScript object types, such as
`BigInt`, `Map` and `Set`, `ArrayBuffer` and `TypedArray`, `Buffer`, `Error`,
`RegExp` etc.

However, this format is not a full superset of JSON, and e.g. properties set
on objects of such built-in types will not be passed on through the
serialization step. Additionally, performance may not be equivalent to that of
JSON, depending on the structure of the passed data. Therefore, this feature
requires opting in by setting the `serialization` option to `'advanced'` when
calling `child_process.spawn()` or `child_process.fork()`.

## Cluster#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/cluster.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/cluster.js)

Clusters of Node.js processes can be used to run multiple instances of Node.js
that can distribute workloads among their application threads. When process
isolation is not needed, use the [`worker_threads`](worker_threads.html)
module instead, which allows running multiple application threads within a
single Node.js instance.

The cluster module allows easy creation of child processes that all share
server ports.

    
    
    import cluster from 'node:cluster';
    import http from 'node:http';
    import { availableParallelism } from 'node:os';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    const numCPUs = availableParallelism();
    
    if (cluster.isPrimary) {
      console.log(`Primary ${process.pid} is running`);
    
      // Fork workers.
      for (let i = 0; i < numCPUs; i++) {
        cluster.fork();
      }
    
      cluster.on('exit', (worker, code, signal) => {
        console.log(`worker ${worker.process.pid} died`);
      });
    } else {
      // Workers can share any TCP connection
      // In this case it is an HTTP server
      http.createServer((req, res) => {
        res.writeHead(200);
        res.end('hello world\n');
      }).listen(8000);
    
      console.log(`Worker ${process.pid} started`);
    }const cluster = require('node:cluster');
    const http = require('node:http');
    const numCPUs = require('node:os').availableParallelism();
    const process = require('node:process');
    
    if (cluster.isPrimary) {
      console.log(`Primary ${process.pid} is running`);
    
      // Fork workers.
      for (let i = 0; i < numCPUs; i++) {
        cluster.fork();
      }
    
      cluster.on('exit', (worker, code, signal) => {
        console.log(`worker ${worker.process.pid} died`);
      });
    } else {
      // Workers can share any TCP connection
      // In this case it is an HTTP server
      http.createServer((req, res) => {
        res.writeHead(200);
        res.end('hello world\n');
      }).listen(8000);
    
      console.log(`Worker ${process.pid} started`);
    }copy

Running Node.js will now share port 8000 between the workers:

    
    
    $ node server.js
    Primary 3596 is running
    Worker 4324 started
    Worker 4520 started
    Worker 6056 started
    Worker 5644 started copy

On Windows, it is not yet possible to set up a named pipe server in a worker.

### How it works#

The worker processes are spawned using the `child_process.fork()` method, so
that they can communicate with the parent via IPC and pass server handles back
and forth.

The cluster module supports two methods of distributing incoming connections.

The first one (and the default one on all platforms except Windows) is the
round-robin approach, where the primary process listens on a port, accepts new
connections and distributes them across the workers in a round-robin fashion,
with some built-in smarts to avoid overloading a worker process.

The second approach is where the primary process creates the listen socket and
sends it to interested workers. The workers then accept incoming connections
directly.

The second approach should, in theory, give the best performance. In practice
however, distribution tends to be very unbalanced due to operating system
scheduler vagaries. Loads have been observed where over 70% of all connections
ended up in just two processes, out of a total of eight.

Because `server.listen()` hands off most of the work to the primary process,
there are three cases where the behavior between a normal Node.js process and
a cluster worker differs:

  1. `server.listen({fd: 7})` Because the message is passed to the primary, file descriptor 7 **in the parent** will be listened on, and the handle passed to the worker, rather than listening to the worker's idea of what the number 7 file descriptor references.
  2. `server.listen(handle)` Listening on handles explicitly will cause the worker to use the supplied handle, rather than talk to the primary process.
  3. `server.listen(0)` Normally, this will cause servers to listen on a random port. However, in a cluster, each worker will receive the same "random" port each time they do `listen(0)`. In essence, the port is random the first time, but predictable thereafter. To listen on a unique port, generate a port number based on the cluster worker ID.

Node.js does not provide routing logic. It is therefore important to design an
application such that it does not rely too heavily on in-memory data objects
for things like sessions and login.

Because workers are all separate processes, they can be killed or re-spawned
depending on a program's needs, without affecting other workers. As long as
there are some workers still alive, the server will continue to accept
connections. If no workers are alive, existing connections will be dropped and
new connections will be refused. Node.js does not automatically manage the
number of workers, however. It is the application's responsibility to manage
the worker pool based on its own needs.

Although a primary use case for the `node:cluster` module is networking, it
can also be used for other use cases requiring worker processes.

### Class: `Worker`#

Added in: v0.7.0

  * Extends: <EventEmitter>

A `Worker` object contains all public information and method about a worker.
In the primary it can be obtained using `cluster.workers`. In a worker it can
be obtained using `cluster.worker`.

#### Event: `'disconnect'`#

Added in: v0.7.7

Similar to the `cluster.on('disconnect')` event, but specific to this worker.

    
    
    cluster.fork().on('disconnect', () => {
      // Worker has disconnected
    }); copy

#### Event: `'error'`#

Added in: v0.7.3

This event is the same as the one provided by `child_process.fork()`.

Within a worker, `process.on('error')` may also be used.

#### Event: `'exit'`#

Added in: v0.11.2

  * `code` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The exit code, if it exited normally.
  * `signal` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The name of the signal (e.g. `'SIGHUP'`) that caused the process to be killed.

Similar to the `cluster.on('exit')` event, but specific to this worker.

    
    
    import cluster from 'node:cluster';
    
    if (cluster.isPrimary) {
      const worker = cluster.fork();
      worker.on('exit', (code, signal) => {
        if (signal) {
          console.log(`worker was killed by signal: ${signal}`);
        } else if (code !== 0) {
          console.log(`worker exited with error code: ${code}`);
        } else {
          console.log('worker success!');
        }
      });
    }const cluster = require('node:cluster');
    
    if (cluster.isPrimary) {
      const worker = cluster.fork();
      worker.on('exit', (code, signal) => {
        if (signal) {
          console.log(`worker was killed by signal: ${signal}`);
        } else if (code !== 0) {
          console.log(`worker exited with error code: ${code}`);
        } else {
          console.log('worker success!');
        }
      });
    }copy

#### Event: `'listening'`#

Added in: v0.7.0

  * `address` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Similar to the `cluster.on('listening')` event, but specific to this worker.

    
    
    cluster.fork().on('listening', (address) => {
      // Worker is listening
    });cluster.fork().on('listening', (address) => {
      // Worker is listening
    });copy

It is not emitted in the worker.

#### Event: `'message'`#

Added in: v0.7.0

  * `message` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * `handle` [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Similar to the `'message'` event of `cluster`, but specific to this worker.

Within a worker, `process.on('message')` may also be used.

See `process` event: `'message'`.

Here is an example using the message system. It keeps a count in the primary
process of the number of HTTP requests received by the workers:

    
    
    import cluster from 'node:cluster';
    import http from 'node:http';
    import { availableParallelism } from 'node:os';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    if (cluster.isPrimary) {
    
      // Keep track of http requests
      let numReqs = 0;
      setInterval(() => {
        console.log(`numReqs = ${numReqs}`);
      }, 1000);
    
      // Count requests
      function messageHandler(msg) {
        if (msg.cmd && msg.cmd === 'notifyRequest') {
          numReqs += 1;
        }
      }
    
      // Start workers and listen for messages containing notifyRequest
      const numCPUs = availableParallelism();
      for (let i = 0; i < numCPUs; i++) {
        cluster.fork();
      }
    
      for (const id in cluster.workers) {
        cluster.workers[id].on('message', messageHandler);
      }
    
    } else {
    
      // Worker processes have a http server.
      http.Server((req, res) => {
        res.writeHead(200);
        res.end('hello world\n');
    
        // Notify primary about the request
        process.send({ cmd: 'notifyRequest' });
      }).listen(8000);
    }const cluster = require('node:cluster');
    const http = require('node:http');
    const numCPUs = require('node:os').availableParallelism();
    const process = require('node:process');
    
    if (cluster.isPrimary) {
    
      // Keep track of http requests
      let numReqs = 0;
      setInterval(() => {
        console.log(`numReqs = ${numReqs}`);
      }, 1000);
    
      // Count requests
      function messageHandler(msg) {
        if (msg.cmd && msg.cmd === 'notifyRequest') {
          numReqs += 1;
        }
      }
    
      // Start workers and listen for messages containing notifyRequest
      for (let i = 0; i < numCPUs; i++) {
        cluster.fork();
      }
    
      for (const id in cluster.workers) {
        cluster.workers[id].on('message', messageHandler);
      }
    
    } else {
    
      // Worker processes have a http server.
      http.Server((req, res) => {
        res.writeHead(200);
        res.end('hello world\n');
    
        // Notify primary about the request
        process.send({ cmd: 'notifyRequest' });
      }).listen(8000);
    }copy

#### Event: `'online'`#

Added in: v0.7.0

Similar to the `cluster.on('online')` event, but specific to this worker.

    
    
    cluster.fork().on('online', () => {
      // Worker is online
    }); copy

It is not emitted in the worker.

#### `worker.disconnect()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v7.3.0 | This method now returns a reference to `worker`.  
v0.7.7 | Added in: v0.7.7  
  
  * Returns: <cluster.Worker> A reference to `worker`.

In a worker, this function will close all servers, wait for the `'close'`
event on those servers, and then disconnect the IPC channel.

In the primary, an internal message is sent to the worker causing it to call
`.disconnect()` on itself.

Causes `.exitedAfterDisconnect` to be set.

After a server is closed, it will no longer accept new connections, but
connections may be accepted by any other listening worker. Existing
connections will be allowed to close as usual. When no more connections exist,
see `server.close()`, the IPC channel to the worker will close allowing it to
die gracefully.

The above applies _only_ to server connections, client connections are not
automatically closed by workers, and disconnect does not wait for them to
close before exiting.

In a worker, `process.disconnect` exists, but it is not this function; it is
`disconnect()`.

Because long living server connections may block workers from disconnecting,
it may be useful to send a message, so application specific actions may be
taken to close them. It also may be useful to implement a timeout, killing a
worker if the `'disconnect'` event has not been emitted after some time.

    
    
    if (cluster.isPrimary) {
      const worker = cluster.fork();
      let timeout;
    
      worker.on('listening', (address) => {
        worker.send('shutdown');
        worker.disconnect();
        timeout = setTimeout(() => {
          worker.kill();
        }, 2000);
      });
    
      worker.on('disconnect', () => {
        clearTimeout(timeout);
      });
    
    } else if (cluster.isWorker) {
      const net = require('node:net');
      const server = net.createServer((socket) => {
        // Connections never end
      });
    
      server.listen(8000);
    
      process.on('message', (msg) => {
        if (msg === 'shutdown') {
          // Initiate graceful close of any connections to server
        }
      });
    } copy

#### `worker.exitedAfterDisconnect`#

Added in: v6.0.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

This property is `true` if the worker exited due to `.disconnect()`. If the
worker exited any other way, it is `false`. If the worker has not exited, it
is `undefined`.

The boolean `worker.exitedAfterDisconnect` allows distinguishing between
voluntary and accidental exit, the primary may choose not to respawn a worker
based on this value.

    
    
    cluster.on('exit', (worker, code, signal) => {
      if (worker.exitedAfterDisconnect === true) {
        console.log('Oh, it was just voluntary – no need to worry');
      }
    });
    
    // kill worker
    worker.kill(); copy

#### `worker.id`#

Added in: v0.8.0

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Each new worker is given its own unique id, this id is stored in the `id`.

While a worker is alive, this is the key that indexes it in `cluster.workers`.

#### `worker.isConnected()`#

Added in: v0.11.14

This function returns `true` if the worker is connected to its primary via its
IPC channel, `false` otherwise. A worker is connected to its primary after it
has been created. It is disconnected after the `'disconnect'` event is
emitted.

#### `worker.isDead()`#

Added in: v0.11.14

This function returns `true` if the worker's process has terminated (either
because of exiting or being signaled). Otherwise, it returns `false`.

    
    
    import cluster from 'node:cluster';
    import http from 'node:http';
    import { availableParallelism } from 'node:os';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    const numCPUs = availableParallelism();
    
    if (cluster.isPrimary) {
      console.log(`Primary ${process.pid} is running`);
    
      // Fork workers.
      for (let i = 0; i < numCPUs; i++) {
        cluster.fork();
      }
    
      cluster.on('fork', (worker) => {
        console.log('worker is dead:', worker.isDead());
      });
    
      cluster.on('exit', (worker, code, signal) => {
        console.log('worker is dead:', worker.isDead());
      });
    } else {
      // Workers can share any TCP connection. In this case, it is an HTTP server.
      http.createServer((req, res) => {
        res.writeHead(200);
        res.end(`Current process\n ${process.pid}`);
        process.kill(process.pid);
      }).listen(8000);
    }const cluster = require('node:cluster');
    const http = require('node:http');
    const numCPUs = require('node:os').availableParallelism();
    const process = require('node:process');
    
    if (cluster.isPrimary) {
      console.log(`Primary ${process.pid} is running`);
    
      // Fork workers.
      for (let i = 0; i < numCPUs; i++) {
        cluster.fork();
      }
    
      cluster.on('fork', (worker) => {
        console.log('worker is dead:', worker.isDead());
      });
    
      cluster.on('exit', (worker, code, signal) => {
        console.log('worker is dead:', worker.isDead());
      });
    } else {
      // Workers can share any TCP connection. In this case, it is an HTTP server.
      http.createServer((req, res) => {
        res.writeHead(200);
        res.end(`Current process\n ${process.pid}`);
        process.kill(process.pid);
      }).listen(8000);
    }copy

#### `worker.kill([signal])`#

Added in: v0.9.12

  * `signal` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of the kill signal to send to the worker process. **Default:** `'SIGTERM'`

This function will kill the worker. In the primary worker, it does this by
disconnecting the `worker.process`, and once disconnected, killing with
`signal`. In the worker, it does it by killing the process with `signal`.

The `kill()` function kills the worker process without waiting for a graceful
disconnect, it has the same behavior as `worker.process.kill()`.

This method is aliased as `worker.destroy()` for backwards compatibility.

In a worker, `process.kill()` exists, but it is not this function; it is
`kill()`.

#### `worker.process`#

Added in: v0.7.0

  * <ChildProcess>

All workers are created using `child_process.fork()`, the returned object from
this function is stored as `.process`. In a worker, the global `process` is
stored.

See: Child Process module.

Workers will call `process.exit(0)` if the `'disconnect'` event occurs on
`process` and `.exitedAfterDisconnect` is not `true`. This protects against
accidental disconnection.

#### `worker.send(message[, sendHandle[, options]][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v4.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is supported now.  
v0.7.0 | Added in: v0.7.0  
  
  * `message` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * `sendHandle` <Handle>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The `options` argument, if present, is an object used to parameterize the sending of certain types of handles. `options` supports the following properties: 
    * `keepOpen` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) A value that can be used when passing instances of `net.Socket`. When `true`, the socket is kept open in the sending process. **Default:** `false`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Send a message to a worker or primary, optionally with a handle.

In the primary, this sends a message to a specific worker. It is identical to
`ChildProcess.send()`.

In a worker, this sends a message to the primary. It is identical to
`process.send()`.

This example will echo back all messages from the primary:

    
    
    if (cluster.isPrimary) {
      const worker = cluster.fork();
      worker.send('hi there');
    
    } else if (cluster.isWorker) {
      process.on('message', (msg) => {
        process.send(msg);
      });
    } copy

### Event: `'disconnect'`#

Added in: v0.7.9

  * `worker` <cluster.Worker>

Emitted after the worker IPC channel has disconnected. This can occur when a
worker exits gracefully, is killed, or is disconnected manually (such as with
`worker.disconnect()`).

There may be a delay between the `'disconnect'` and `'exit'` events. These
events can be used to detect if the process is stuck in a cleanup or if there
are long-living connections.

    
    
    cluster.on('disconnect', (worker) => {
      console.log(`The worker #${worker.id} has disconnected`);
    }); copy

### Event: `'exit'`#

Added in: v0.7.9

  * `worker` <cluster.Worker>
  * `code` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The exit code, if it exited normally.
  * `signal` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The name of the signal (e.g. `'SIGHUP'`) that caused the process to be killed.

When any of the workers die the cluster module will emit the `'exit'` event.

This can be used to restart the worker by calling `.fork()` again.

    
    
    cluster.on('exit', (worker, code, signal) => {
      console.log('worker %d died (%s). restarting...',
                  worker.process.pid, signal || code);
      cluster.fork();
    }); copy

See `child_process` event: `'exit'`.

### Event: `'fork'`#

Added in: v0.7.0

  * `worker` <cluster.Worker>

When a new worker is forked the cluster module will emit a `'fork'` event.
This can be used to log worker activity, and create a custom timeout.

    
    
    const timeouts = [];
    function errorMsg() {
      console.error('Something must be wrong with the connection ...');
    }
    
    cluster.on('fork', (worker) => {
      timeouts[worker.id] = setTimeout(errorMsg, 2000);
    });
    cluster.on('listening', (worker, address) => {
      clearTimeout(timeouts[worker.id]);
    });
    cluster.on('exit', (worker, code, signal) => {
      clearTimeout(timeouts[worker.id]);
      errorMsg();
    }); copy

### Event: `'listening'`#

Added in: v0.7.0

  * `worker` <cluster.Worker>
  * `address` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

After calling `listen()` from a worker, when the `'listening'` event is
emitted on the server, a `'listening'` event will also be emitted on `cluster`
in the primary.

The event handler is executed with two arguments, the `worker` contains the
worker object and the `address` object contains the following connection
properties: `address`, `port`, and `addressType`. This is very useful if the
worker is listening on more than one address.

    
    
    cluster.on('listening', (worker, address) => {
      console.log(
        `A worker is now connected to ${address.address}:${address.port}`);
    }); copy

The `addressType` is one of:

  * `4` (TCPv4)
  * `6` (TCPv6)
  * `-1` (Unix domain socket)
  * `'udp4'` or `'udp6'` (UDPv4 or UDPv6)

### Event: `'message'`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.0.0 | The `worker` parameter is passed now; see below for details.  
v2.5.0 | Added in: v2.5.0  
  
  * `worker` <cluster.Worker>
  * `message` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * `handle` [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Emitted when the cluster primary receives a message from any worker.

See `child_process` event: `'message'`.

### Event: `'online'`#

Added in: v0.7.0

  * `worker` <cluster.Worker>

After forking a new worker, the worker should respond with an online message.
When the primary receives an online message it will emit this event. The
difference between `'fork'` and `'online'` is that fork is emitted when the
primary forks a worker, and `'online'` is emitted when the worker is running.

    
    
    cluster.on('online', (worker) => {
      console.log('Yay, the worker responded after it was forked');
    }); copy

### Event: `'setup'`#

Added in: v0.7.1

  * `settings` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Emitted every time `.setupPrimary()` is called.

The `settings` object is the `cluster.settings` object at the time
`.setupPrimary()` was called and is advisory only, since multiple calls to
`.setupPrimary()` can be made in a single tick.

If accuracy is important, use `cluster.settings`.

### `cluster.disconnect([callback])`#

Added in: v0.7.7

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Called when all workers are disconnected and handles are closed.

Calls `.disconnect()` on each worker in `cluster.workers`.

When they are disconnected all internal handles will be closed, allowing the
primary process to die gracefully if no other event is waiting.

The method takes an optional callback argument which will be called when
finished.

This can only be called from the primary process.

### `cluster.fork([env])`#

Added in: v0.6.0

  * `env` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Key/value pairs to add to worker process environment.
  * Returns: <cluster.Worker>

Spawn a new worker process.

This can only be called from the primary process.

### `cluster.isMaster`#

Added in: v0.8.1Deprecated since: v16.0.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated

Deprecated alias for `cluster.isPrimary`.

### `cluster.isPrimary`#

Added in: v16.0.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

True if the process is a primary. This is determined by the
`process.env.NODE_UNIQUE_ID`. If `process.env.NODE_UNIQUE_ID` is undefined,
then `isPrimary` is `true`.

### `cluster.isWorker`#

Added in: v0.6.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

True if the process is not a primary (it is the negation of
`cluster.isPrimary`).

### `cluster.schedulingPolicy`#

Added in: v0.11.2

The scheduling policy, either `cluster.SCHED_RR` for round-robin or
`cluster.SCHED_NONE` to leave it to the operating system. This is a global
setting and effectively frozen once either the first worker is spawned, or
`.setupPrimary()` is called, whichever comes first.

`SCHED_RR` is the default on all operating systems except Windows. Windows
will change to `SCHED_RR` once libuv is able to effectively distribute IOCP
handles without incurring a large performance hit.

`cluster.schedulingPolicy` can also be set through the
`NODE_CLUSTER_SCHED_POLICY` environment variable. Valid values are `'rr'` and
`'none'`.

### `cluster.settings`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.2.0, v12.16.0 | The `serialization` option is supported now.  
v9.5.0 | The `cwd` option is supported now.  
v9.4.0 | The `windowsHide` option is supported now.  
v8.2.0 | The `inspectPort` option is supported now.  
v6.4.0 | The `stdio` option is supported now.  
v0.7.1 | Added in: v0.7.1  
  
  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `execArgv` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) List of string arguments passed to the Node.js executable. **Default:** `process.execArgv`.
    * `exec` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) File path to worker file. **Default:** `process.argv[1]`.
    * `args` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) String arguments passed to worker. **Default:** `process.argv.slice(2)`.
    * `cwd` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Current working directory of the worker process. **Default:** `undefined` (inherits from parent process).
    * `serialization` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Specify the kind of serialization used for sending messages between processes. Possible values are `'json'` and `'advanced'`. See Advanced serialization for `child_process` for more details. **Default:** `false`.
    * `silent` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether or not to send output to parent's stdio. **Default:** `false`.
    * `stdio` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) Configures the stdio of forked processes. Because the cluster module relies on IPC to function, this configuration must contain an `'ipc'` entry. When this option is provided, it overrides `silent`. See `child_process.spawn()`'s `stdio`.
    * `uid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the user identity of the process. (See [`setuid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setuid.2.html).)
    * `gid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the group identity of the process. (See [`setgid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setgid.2.html).)
    * `inspectPort` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Sets inspector port of worker. This can be a number, or a function that takes no arguments and returns a number. By default each worker gets its own port, incremented from the primary's `process.debugPort`.
    * `windowsHide` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Hide the forked processes console window that would normally be created on Windows systems. **Default:** `false`.

After calling `.setupPrimary()` (or `.fork()`) this settings object will
contain the settings, including the default values.

This object is not intended to be changed or set manually.

### `cluster.setupMaster([settings])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | Deprecated since: v16.0.0  
v6.4.0 | The `stdio` option is supported now.  
v0.7.1 | Added in: v0.7.1  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated

Deprecated alias for `.setupPrimary()`.

### `cluster.setupPrimary([settings])`#

Added in: v16.0.0

  * `settings` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) See `cluster.settings`.

`setupPrimary` is used to change the default 'fork' behavior. Once called, the
settings will be present in `cluster.settings`.

Any settings changes only affect future calls to `.fork()` and have no effect
on workers that are already running.

The only attribute of a worker that cannot be set via `.setupPrimary()` is the
`env` passed to `.fork()`.

The defaults above apply to the first call only; the defaults for later calls
are the current values at the time of `cluster.setupPrimary()` is called.

    
    
    import cluster from 'node:cluster';
    
    cluster.setupPrimary({
      exec: 'worker.js',
      args: ['--use', 'https'],
      silent: true,
    });
    cluster.fork(); // https worker
    cluster.setupPrimary({
      exec: 'worker.js',
      args: ['--use', 'http'],
    });
    cluster.fork(); // http workerconst cluster = require('node:cluster');
    
    cluster.setupPrimary({
      exec: 'worker.js',
      args: ['--use', 'https'],
      silent: true,
    });
    cluster.fork(); // https worker
    cluster.setupPrimary({
      exec: 'worker.js',
      args: ['--use', 'http'],
    });
    cluster.fork(); // http workercopy

This can only be called from the primary process.

### `cluster.worker`#

Added in: v0.7.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

A reference to the current worker object. Not available in the primary
process.

    
    
    import cluster from 'node:cluster';
    
    if (cluster.isPrimary) {
      console.log('I am primary');
      cluster.fork();
      cluster.fork();
    } else if (cluster.isWorker) {
      console.log(`I am worker #${cluster.worker.id}`);
    }const cluster = require('node:cluster');
    
    if (cluster.isPrimary) {
      console.log('I am primary');
      cluster.fork();
      cluster.fork();
    } else if (cluster.isWorker) {
      console.log(`I am worker #${cluster.worker.id}`);
    }copy

### `cluster.workers`#

Added in: v0.7.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

A hash that stores the active worker objects, keyed by `id` field. This makes
it easy to loop through all the workers. It is only available in the primary
process.

A worker is removed from `cluster.workers` after the worker has disconnected
_and_ exited. The order between these two events cannot be determined in
advance. However, it is guaranteed that the removal from the `cluster.workers`
list happens before the last `'disconnect'` or `'exit'` event is emitted.

    
    
    import cluster from 'node:cluster';
    
    for (const worker of Object.values(cluster.workers)) {
      worker.send('big announcement to all workers');
    }const cluster = require('node:cluster');
    
    for (const worker of Object.values(cluster.workers)) {
      worker.send('big announcement to all workers');
    }copy

## Command-line API#

Node.js comes with a variety of CLI options. These options expose built-in
debugging, multiple ways to execute scripts, and other helpful runtime
options.

To view this documentation as a manual page in a terminal, run `man node`.

### Synopsis#

`node [options] [V8 options] [<program-entry-point> | -e "script" | -] [--] [arguments]`

`node inspect [<program-entry-point> | -e "script" | <host>:<port>] …`

`node --v8-options`

Execute without arguments to start the [REPL](repl.html).

For more info about `node inspect`, see the [debugger](debugger.html)
documentation.

### Program entry point#

The program entry point is a specifier-like string. If the string is not an
absolute path, it's resolved as a relative path from the current working
directory. That path is then resolved by [CommonJS](modules.html) module
loader. If no corresponding file is found, an error is thrown.

If a file is found, its path will be passed to the ES module loader under any
of the following conditions:

  * The program was started with a command-line flag that forces the entry point to be loaded with ECMAScript module loader, such as `--import`.
  * The file has an `.mjs` extension.
  * The file does not have a `.cjs` extension, and the nearest parent `package.json` file contains a top-level `"type"` field with a value of `"module"`.

Otherwise, the file is loaded using the CommonJS module loader. See Modules
loaders for more details.

#### ECMAScript modules loader entry point caveat#

When loading, the ES module loader loads the program entry point, the `node`
command will accept as input only files with `.js`, `.mjs`, or `.cjs`
extensions. With the following flags, additional file extensions are enabled:

  * `--experimental-wasm-modules` for files with `.wasm` extension.
  * `--experimental-addon-modules` for files with `.node` extension.

### Options#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.12.0 | Underscores instead of dashes are now allowed for Node.js options as well, in addition to V8 options.  
  
All options, including V8 options, allow words to be separated by both dashes
(`-`) or underscores (`_`). For example, `--pending-deprecation` is equivalent
to `--pending_deprecation`.

If an option that takes a single value (such as `--max-http-header-size`) is
passed more than once, then the last passed value is used. Options from the
command line take precedence over options passed through the `NODE_OPTIONS`
environment variable.

#### `-`#

Added in: v8.0.0

Alias for stdin. Analogous to the use of `-` in other command-line utilities,
meaning that the script is read from stdin, and the rest of the options are
passed to that script.

#### `--`#

Added in: v6.11.0

Indicate the end of node options. Pass the rest of the arguments to the
script. If no script filename or eval/print script is supplied prior to this,
then the next argument is used as a script filename.

#### `--abort-on-uncaught-exception`#

Added in: v0.10.8

Aborting instead of exiting causes a core file to be generated for post-mortem
analysis using a debugger (such as `lldb`, `gdb`, and `mdb`).

If this flag is passed, the behavior can still be set to not abort through
`process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback()` (and through usage of the
`node:domain` module that uses it).

#### `--allow-addons`#

Added in: v21.6.0, v20.12.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

When using the Permission Model, the process will not be able to use native
addons by default. Attempts to do so will throw an `ERR_DLOPEN_DISABLED`
unless the user explicitly passes the `--allow-addons` flag when starting
Node.js.

Example:

    
    
    // Attempt to require an native addon
    require('nodejs-addon-example'); copy
    
    
    $ node --permission --allow-fs-read=* index.js
    node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1319
      return process.dlopen(module, path.toNamespacedPath(filename));
                     ^
    
    Error: Cannot load native addon because loading addons is disabled.
        at Module._extensions..node (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1319:18)
        at Module.load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1091:32)
        at Module._load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:938:12)
        at Module.require (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1115:19)
        at require (node:internal/modules/helpers:130:18)
        at Object.<anonymous> (/home/index.js:1:15)
        at Module._compile (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1233:14)
        at Module._extensions..js (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1287:10)
        at Module.load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1091:32)
        at Module._load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:938:12) {
      code: 'ERR_DLOPEN_DISABLED'
    } copy

#### `--allow-child-process`#

Added in: v20.0.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

When using the Permission Model, the process will not be able to spawn any
child process by default. Attempts to do so will throw an `ERR_ACCESS_DENIED`
unless the user explicitly passes the `--allow-child-process` flag when
starting Node.js.

Example:

    
    
    const childProcess = require('node:child_process');
    // Attempt to bypass the permission
    childProcess.spawn('node', ['-e', 'require("fs").writeFileSync("/new-file", "example")']); copy
    
    
    $ node --permission --allow-fs-read=* index.js
    node:internal/child_process:388
      const err = this._handle.spawn(options);
                               ^
    Error: Access to this API has been restricted
        at ChildProcess.spawn (node:internal/child_process:388:28)
        at node:internal/main/run_main_module:17:47 {
      code: 'ERR_ACCESS_DENIED',
      permission: 'ChildProcess'
    } copy

Unlike `child_process.spawn`, the `child_process.fork` API copies the
execution arguments from the parent process. This means that if you start
Node.js with the Permission Model enabled and include the `--allow-child-
process` flag, calling `child_process.fork()` will propagate all Permission
Model flags to the child process.

#### `--allow-fs-read`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.5.0 | Permission Model and --allow-fs flags are stable.  
v20.7.0 | Paths delimited by comma (`,`) are no longer allowed.  
v20.0.0 | Added in: v20.0.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable.

This flag configures file system read permissions using the Permission Model.

The valid arguments for the `--allow-fs-read` flag are:

  * `*` \- To allow all `FileSystemRead` operations.
  * Multiple paths can be allowed using multiple `--allow-fs-read` flags. Example `--allow-fs-read=/folder1/ --allow-fs-read=/folder1/`

Examples can be found in the File System Permissions documentation.

The initializer module also needs to be allowed. Consider the following
example:

    
    
    $ node --permission index.js
    
    Error: Access to this API has been restricted
        at node:internal/main/run_main_module:23:47 {
      code: 'ERR_ACCESS_DENIED',
      permission: 'FileSystemRead',
      resource: '/Users/rafaelgss/repos/os/node/index.js'
    } copy

The process needs to have access to the `index.js` module:

    
    
    node --permission --allow-fs-read=/path/to/index.js index.js copy

#### `--allow-fs-write`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.5.0 | Permission Model and --allow-fs flags are stable.  
v20.7.0 | Paths delimited by comma (`,`) are no longer allowed.  
v20.0.0 | Added in: v20.0.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable.

This flag configures file system write permissions using the Permission Model.

The valid arguments for the `--allow-fs-write` flag are:

  * `*` \- To allow all `FileSystemWrite` operations.
  * Multiple paths can be allowed using multiple `--allow-fs-write` flags. Example `--allow-fs-write=/folder1/ --allow-fs-write=/folder1/`

Paths delimited by comma (`,`) are no longer allowed. When passing a single
flag with a comma a warning will be displayed.

Examples can be found in the File System Permissions documentation.

#### `--allow-wasi`#

Added in: v22.3.0, v20.16.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

When using the Permission Model, the process will not be capable of creating
any WASI instances by default. For security reasons, the call will throw an
`ERR_ACCESS_DENIED` unless the user explicitly passes the flag `--allow-wasi`
in the main Node.js process.

Example:

    
    
    const { WASI } = require('node:wasi');
    // Attempt to bypass the permission
    new WASI({
      version: 'preview1',
      // Attempt to mount the whole filesystem
      preopens: {
        '/': '/',
      },
    }); copy
    
    
    $ node --permission --allow-fs-read=* index.js
    
    Error: Access to this API has been restricted
        at node:internal/main/run_main_module:30:49 {
      code: 'ERR_ACCESS_DENIED',
      permission: 'WASI',
    } copy

#### `--allow-worker`#

Added in: v20.0.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

When using the Permission Model, the process will not be able to create any
worker threads by default. For security reasons, the call will throw an
`ERR_ACCESS_DENIED` unless the user explicitly pass the flag `--allow-worker`
in the main Node.js process.

Example:

    
    
    const { Worker } = require('node:worker_threads');
    // Attempt to bypass the permission
    new Worker(__filename); copy
    
    
    $ node --permission --allow-fs-read=* index.js
    
    Error: Access to this API has been restricted
        at node:internal/main/run_main_module:17:47 {
      code: 'ERR_ACCESS_DENIED',
      permission: 'WorkerThreads'
    } copy

#### `--build-snapshot`#

Added in: v18.8.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Generates a snapshot blob when the process exits and writes it to disk, which
can be loaded later with `--snapshot-blob`.

When building the snapshot, if `--snapshot-blob` is not specified, the
generated blob will be written, by default, to `snapshot.blob` in the current
working directory. Otherwise it will be written to the path specified by
`--snapshot-blob`.

    
    
    $ echo "globalThis.foo = 'I am from the snapshot'" > snapshot.js
    
    # Run snapshot.js to initialize the application and snapshot the
    # state of it into snapshot.blob.
    $ node --snapshot-blob snapshot.blob --build-snapshot snapshot.js
    
    $ echo "console.log(globalThis.foo)" > index.js
    
    # Load the generated snapshot and start the application from index.js.
    $ node --snapshot-blob snapshot.blob index.js
    I am from the snapshot copy

The `v8.startupSnapshot` API can be used to specify an entry point at snapshot
building time, thus avoiding the need of an additional entry script at
deserialization time:

    
    
    $ echo "require('v8').startupSnapshot.setDeserializeMainFunction(() => console.log('I am from the snapshot'))" > snapshot.js
    $ node --snapshot-blob snapshot.blob --build-snapshot snapshot.js
    $ node --snapshot-blob snapshot.blob
    I am from the snapshot copy

For more information, check out the `v8.startupSnapshot` API documentation.

Currently the support for run-time snapshot is experimental in that:

  1. User-land modules are not yet supported in the snapshot, so only one single file can be snapshotted. Users can bundle their applications into a single script with their bundler of choice before building a snapshot, however.
  2. Only a subset of the built-in modules work in the snapshot, though the Node.js core test suite checks that a few fairly complex applications can be snapshotted. Support for more modules are being added. If any crashes or buggy behaviors occur when building a snapshot, please file a report in the [Node.js issue tracker](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues) and link to it in the [tracking issue for user-land snapshots](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/44014).

#### `--build-snapshot-config`#

Added in: v21.6.0, v20.12.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Specifies the path to a JSON configuration file which configures snapshot
creation behavior.

The following options are currently supported:

  * `builder` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Required. Provides the name to the script that is executed before building the snapshot, as if `--build-snapshot` had been passed with `builder` as the main script name.
  * `withoutCodeCache` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Optional. Including the code cache reduces the time spent on compiling functions included in the snapshot at the expense of a bigger snapshot size and potentially breaking portability of the snapshot.

When using this flag, additional script files provided on the command line
will not be executed and instead be interpreted as regular command line
arguments.

#### `-c`, `--check`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | The `--require` option is now supported when checking a file.  
v5.0.0, v4.2.0 | Added in: v5.0.0, v4.2.0  
  
Syntax check the script without executing.

#### `--completion-bash`#

Added in: v10.12.0

Print source-able bash completion script for Node.js.

    
    
    node --completion-bash > node_bash_completion
    source node_bash_completion copy

#### `-C condition`, `--conditions=condition`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.9.0, v20.18.0 | The flag is no longer experimental.  
v14.9.0, v12.19.0 | Added in: v14.9.0, v12.19.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

Provide custom conditional exports resolution conditions.

Any number of custom string condition names are permitted.

The default Node.js conditions of `"node"`, `"default"`, `"import"`, and
`"require"` will always apply as defined.

For example, to run a module with "development" resolutions:

    
    
    node -C development app.js copy

#### `--cpu-prof`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.4.0, v20.16.0 | The `--cpu-prof` flags are now stable.  
v12.0.0 | Added in: v12.0.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

Starts the V8 CPU profiler on start up, and writes the CPU profile to disk
before exit.

If `--cpu-prof-dir` is not specified, the generated profile is placed in the
current working directory.

If `--cpu-prof-name` is not specified, the generated profile is named
`CPU.${yyyymmdd}.${hhmmss}.${pid}.${tid}.${seq}.cpuprofile`.

    
    
    $ node --cpu-prof index.js
    $ ls *.cpuprofile
    CPU.20190409.202950.15293.0.0.cpuprofile copy

#### `--cpu-prof-dir`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.4.0, v20.16.0 | The `--cpu-prof` flags are now stable.  
v12.0.0 | Added in: v12.0.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

Specify the directory where the CPU profiles generated by `--cpu-prof` will be
placed.

The default value is controlled by the `--diagnostic-dir` command-line option.

#### `--cpu-prof-interval`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.4.0, v20.16.0 | The `--cpu-prof` flags are now stable.  
v12.2.0 | Added in: v12.2.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

Specify the sampling interval in microseconds for the CPU profiles generated
by `--cpu-prof`. The default is 1000 microseconds.

#### `--cpu-prof-name`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.4.0, v20.16.0 | The `--cpu-prof` flags are now stable.  
v12.0.0 | Added in: v12.0.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

Specify the file name of the CPU profile generated by `--cpu-prof`.

#### `--diagnostic-dir=directory`#

Set the directory to which all diagnostic output files are written. Defaults
to current working directory.

Affects the default output directory of:

  * `--cpu-prof-dir`
  * `--heap-prof-dir`
  * `--redirect-warnings`

#### `--disable-proto=mode`#

Added in: v13.12.0, v12.17.0

Disable the `Object.prototype.__proto__` property. If `mode` is `delete`, the
property is removed entirely. If `mode` is `throw`, accesses to the property
throw an exception with the code `ERR_PROTO_ACCESS`.

#### `--disable-sigusr1`#

Added in: v23.7.0

Stability: 1.2 - Release candidate

Disable the ability of starting a debugging session by sending a `SIGUSR1`
signal to the process.

#### `--disable-warning=code-or-type`#

Added in: v21.3.0, v20.11.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

Disable specific process warnings by `code` or `type`.

Warnings emitted from `process.emitWarning()` may contain a `code` and a
`type`. This option will not-emit warnings that have a matching `code` or
`type`.

List of deprecation warnings.

The Node.js core warning types are: `DeprecationWarning` and
`ExperimentalWarning`

For example, the following script will not emit DEP0025 `require('node:sys')`
when executed with `node --disable-warning=DEP0025`:

    
    
    import sys from 'node:sys';const sys = require('node:sys');copy

For example, the following script will emit the DEP0025 `require('node:sys')`,
but not any Experimental Warnings (such as ExperimentalWarning:
`vm.measureMemory` is an experimental feature in <=v21) when executed with
`node --disable-warning=ExperimentalWarning`:

    
    
    import sys from 'node:sys';
    import vm from 'node:vm';
    
    vm.measureMemory();const sys = require('node:sys');
    const vm = require('node:vm');
    
    vm.measureMemory();copy

#### `--disable-wasm-trap-handler`#

Added in: v22.2.0, v20.15.0

By default, Node.js enables trap-handler-based WebAssembly bound checks. As a
result, V8 does not need to insert inline bound checks int the code compiled
from WebAssembly which may speedup WebAssembly execution significantly, but
this optimization requires allocating a big virtual memory cage (currently
10GB). If the Node.js process does not have access to a large enough virtual
memory address space due to system configurations or hardware limitations,
users won't be able to run any WebAssembly that involves allocation in this
virtual memory cage and will see an out-of-memory error.

    
    
    $ ulimit -v 5000000
    $ node -p "new WebAssembly.Memory({ initial: 10, maximum: 100 });"
    [eval]:1
    new WebAssembly.Memory({ initial: 10, maximum: 100 });
    ^
    
    RangeError: WebAssembly.Memory(): could not allocate memory
        at [eval]:1:1
        at runScriptInThisContext (node:internal/vm:209:10)
        at node:internal/process/execution:118:14
        at [eval]-wrapper:6:24
        at runScript (node:internal/process/execution:101:62)
        at evalScript (node:internal/process/execution:136:3)
        at node:internal/main/eval_string:49:3
     copy

`--disable-wasm-trap-handler` disables this optimization so that users can at
least run WebAssembly (with less optimal performance) when the virtual memory
address space available to their Node.js process is lower than what the V8
WebAssembly memory cage needs.

#### `--disallow-code-generation-from-strings`#

Added in: v9.8.0

Make built-in language features like `eval` and `new Function` that generate
code from strings throw an exception instead. This does not affect the Node.js
`node:vm` module.

#### `--dns-result-order=order`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.1.0, v20.13.0 | The `ipv6first` is supported now.  
v17.0.0 | Changed default value to `verbatim`.  
v16.4.0, v14.18.0 | Added in: v16.4.0, v14.18.0  
  
Set the default value of `order` in `dns.lookup()` and `dnsPromises.lookup()`.
The value could be:

  * `ipv4first`: sets default `order` to `ipv4first`.
  * `ipv6first`: sets default `order` to `ipv6first`.
  * `verbatim`: sets default `order` to `verbatim`.

The default is `verbatim` and `dns.setDefaultResultOrder()` have higher
priority than `--dns-result-order`.

#### `--enable-fips`#

Added in: v6.0.0

Enable FIPS-compliant crypto at startup. (Requires Node.js to be built against
FIPS-compatible OpenSSL.)

#### `--enable-network-family-autoselection`#

Added in: v18.18.0

Enables the family autoselection algorithm unless connection options
explicitly disables it.

#### `--enable-source-maps`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.11.0, v14.18.0 | This API is no longer experimental.  
v12.12.0 | Added in: v12.12.0  
  
Enable [Source Map v3](https://sourcemaps.info/spec.html) support for stack
traces.

When using a transpiler, such as TypeScript, stack traces thrown by an
application reference the transpiled code, not the original source position.
`--enable-source-maps` enables caching of Source Maps and makes a best effort
to report stack traces relative to the original source file.

Overriding `Error.prepareStackTrace` may prevent `--enable-source-maps` from
modifying the stack trace. Call and return the results of the original
`Error.prepareStackTrace` in the overriding function to modify the stack trace
with source maps.

    
    
    const originalPrepareStackTrace = Error.prepareStackTrace;
    Error.prepareStackTrace = (error, trace) => {
      // Modify error and trace and format stack trace with
      // original Error.prepareStackTrace.
      return originalPrepareStackTrace(error, trace);
    }; copy

Note, enabling source maps can introduce latency to your application when
`Error.stack` is accessed. If you access `Error.stack` frequently in your
application, take into account the performance implications of `--enable-
source-maps`.

#### `--entry-url`#

Added in: v23.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

When present, Node.js will interpret the entry point as a URL, rather than a
path.

Follows ECMAScript module resolution rules.

Any query parameter or hash in the URL will be accessible via
`import.meta.url`.

    
    
    node --entry-url 'file:///path/to/file.js?queryparams=work#and-hashes-too'
    node --entry-url 'file.ts?query#hash'
    node --entry-url 'data:text/javascript,console.log("Hello")' copy

#### `--env-file-if-exists=config`#

Added in: v22.9.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

Behavior is the same as `--env-file`, but an error is not thrown if the file
does not exist.

#### `--env-file=config`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.7.0, v20.12.0 | Add support to multi-line values.  
v20.6.0 | Added in: v20.6.0  
  
Stability: 1.1 - Active development

Loads environment variables from a file relative to the current directory,
making them available to applications on `process.env`. The environment
variables which configure Node.js, such as `NODE_OPTIONS`, are parsed and
applied. If the same variable is defined in the environment and in the file,
the value from the environment takes precedence.

You can pass multiple `--env-file` arguments. Subsequent files override pre-
existing variables defined in previous files.

An error is thrown if the file does not exist.

    
    
    node --env-file=.env --env-file=.development.env index.js copy

The format of the file should be one line per key-value pair of environment
variable name and value separated by `=`:

    
    
    PORT=3000 copy

Any text after a `#` is treated as a comment:

    
    
    # This is a comment
    PORT=3000 # This is also a comment copy

Values can start and end with the following quotes: ```, `"` or `'`. They are
omitted from the values.

    
    
    USERNAME="nodejs" # will result in `nodejs` as the value. copy

Multi-line values are supported:

    
    
    MULTI_LINE="THIS IS
    A MULTILINE"
    # will result in `THIS IS\nA MULTILINE` as the value. copy

Export keyword before a key is ignored:

    
    
    export USERNAME="nodejs" # will result in `nodejs` as the value. copy

If you want to load environment variables from a file that may not exist, you
can use the `--env-file-if-exists` flag instead.

#### `-e`, `--eval "script"`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.6.0 | Eval now supports experimental type-stripping.  
v5.11.0 | Built-in libraries are now available as predefined variables.  
v0.5.2 | Added in: v0.5.2  
  
Evaluate the following argument as JavaScript. The modules which are
predefined in the REPL can also be used in `script`.

On Windows, using `cmd.exe` a single quote will not work correctly because it
only recognizes double `"` for quoting. In Powershell or Git bash, both `'`
and `"` are usable.

It is possible to run code containing inline types unless the `--no-
experimental-strip-types` flag is provided.

#### `--experimental-addon-modules`#

Added in: v23.6.0

Stability: 1.0 - Early development

Enable experimental import support for `.node` addons.

#### `--experimental-async-context-frame`#

Added in: v22.7.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Enables the use of `AsyncLocalStorage` backed by `AsyncContextFrame` rather
than the default implementation which relies on async_hooks. This new model is
implemented very differently and so could have differences in how context data
flows within the application. As such, it is presently recommended to be sure
your application behaviour is unaffected by this change before using it in
production.

#### `--experimental-config-file=config`#

Added in: v23.10.0

Stability: 1.0 - Early development

If present, Node.js will look for a configuration file at the specified path.
Node.js will read the configuration file and apply the settings. The
configuration file should be a JSON file with the following structure:

> [!NOTE] Replace `vX.Y.Z` in the `$schema` with the version of Node.js you
> are using.
    
    
    {
      "$schema": "https://nodejs.org/dist/vX.Y.Z/docs/node-config-schema.json",
      "nodeOptions": {
        "import": [
          "amaro/strip"
        ],
        "watch-path": "src",
        "watch-preserve-output": true
      }
    } copy

In the `nodeOptions` field, only flags that are allowed in `NODE_OPTIONS` are
supported. No-op flags are not supported. Not all V8 flags are currently
supported.

It is possible to use the [official JSON schema](../node-config-schema.json)
to validate the configuration file, which may vary depending on the Node.js
version. Each key in the configuration file corresponds to a flag that can be
passed as a command-line argument. The value of the key is the value that
would be passed to the flag.

For example, the configuration file above is equivalent to the following
command-line arguments:

    
    
    node --import amaro/strip --watch-path=src --watch-preserve-output copy

The priority in configuration is as follows:

  1. NODE_OPTIONS and command-line options
  2. Configuration file
  3. Dotenv NODE_OPTIONS

Values in the configuration file will not override the values in the
environment variables and command-line options, but will override the values
in the `NODE_OPTIONS` env file parsed by the `--env-file` flag.

If duplicate keys are present in the configuration file, only the first key
will be used.

The configuration parser will throw an error if the configuration file
contains unknown keys or keys that cannot used in `NODE_OPTIONS`.

Node.js will not sanitize or perform validation on the user-provided
configuration, so **NEVER** use untrusted configuration files.

#### `--experimental-default-config-file`#

Added in: v23.10.0

Stability: 1.0 - Early development

If the `--experimental-default-config-file` flag is present, Node.js will look
for a `node.config.json` file in the current working directory and load it as
a as configuration file.

#### `--experimental-eventsource`#

Added in: v22.3.0, v20.18.0

Enable exposition of [EventSource Web
API](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/server-sent-events.html#server-
sent-events) on the global scope.

#### `--experimental-import-meta-resolve`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.6.0, v18.19.0 | synchronous import.meta.resolve made available by default, with the flag retained for enabling the experimental second argument as previously supported.  
v13.9.0, v12.16.2 | Added in: v13.9.0, v12.16.2  
  
Enable experimental `import.meta.resolve()` parent URL support, which allows
passing a second `parentURL` argument for contextual resolution.

Previously gated the entire `import.meta.resolve` feature.

#### `--experimental-loader=module`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.6.1 | Using this feature with the permission model enabled requires passing `--allow-worker`.  
v12.11.1 | This flag was renamed from `--loader` to `--experimental-loader`.  
v8.8.0 | Added in: v8.8.0  
  
> This flag is discouraged and may be removed in a future version of Node.js.
> Please use `--import` with `register()` instead.

Specify the `module` containing exported module customization hooks. `module`
may be any string accepted as an `import` specifier.

This feature requires `--allow-worker` if used with the Permission Model.

#### `--experimental-network-inspection`#

Added in: v22.6.0, v20.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Enable experimental support for the network inspection with Chrome DevTools.

#### `--experimental-print-required-tla`#

Added in: v22.0.0, v20.17.0

If the ES module being `require()`'d contains top-level `await`, this flag
allows Node.js to evaluate the module, try to locate the top-level awaits, and
print their location to help users find them.

#### `--experimental-require-module`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | This is now true by default.  
v22.0.0, v20.17.0 | Added in: v22.0.0, v20.17.0  
  
Stability: 1.1 - Active Development

Supports loading a synchronous ES module graph in `require()`.

See Loading ECMAScript modules using `require()`.

#### `--experimental-sea-config`#

Added in: v20.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Use this flag to generate a blob that can be injected into the Node.js binary
to produce a [single executable application](single-executable-
applications.html). See the documentation about this configuration for
details.

#### `--experimental-shadow-realm`#

Added in: v19.0.0, v18.13.0

Use this flag to enable [ShadowRealm](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-
shadowrealm) support.

#### `--experimental-test-coverage`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.1.0, v18.17.0 | This option can be used with `--test`.  
v19.7.0, v18.15.0 | Added in: v19.7.0, v18.15.0  
  
When used in conjunction with the `node:test` module, a code coverage report
is generated as part of the test runner output. If no tests are run, a
coverage report is not generated. See the documentation on collecting code
coverage from tests for more details.

#### `--experimental-test-module-mocks`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.6.1 | Using this feature with the permission model enabled requires passing `--allow-worker`.  
v22.3.0, v20.18.0 | Added in: v22.3.0, v20.18.0  
  
Stability: 1.0 - Early development

Enable module mocking in the test runner.

This feature requires `--allow-worker` if used with the Permission Model.

#### `--experimental-transform-types`#

Added in: v22.7.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

Enables the transformation of TypeScript-only syntax into JavaScript code.
Implies `--enable-source-maps`.

#### `--experimental-vm-modules`#

Added in: v9.6.0

Enable experimental ES Module support in the `node:vm` module.

#### `--experimental-wasi-unstable-preview1`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0, v18.17.0 | This option is no longer required as WASI is enabled by default, but can still be passed.  
v13.6.0 | changed from `--experimental-wasi-unstable-preview0` to `--experimental-wasi-unstable-preview1`.  
v13.3.0, v12.16.0 | Added in: v13.3.0, v12.16.0  
  
Enable experimental WebAssembly System Interface (WASI) support.

#### `--experimental-wasm-modules`#

Added in: v12.3.0

Enable experimental WebAssembly module support.

#### `--experimental-webstorage`#

Added in: v22.4.0

Enable experimental [`Web Storage`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/Web_Storage_API) support.

#### `--expose-gc`#

Added in: v22.3.0, v20.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental. This flag is inherited from V8 and is subject to
change upstream.

This flag will expose the gc extension from V8.

    
    
    if (globalThis.gc) {
      globalThis.gc();
    } copy

#### `--force-context-aware`#

Added in: v12.12.0

Disable loading native addons that are not context-aware.

#### `--force-fips`#

Added in: v6.0.0

Force FIPS-compliant crypto on startup. (Cannot be disabled from script code.)
(Same requirements as `--enable-fips`.)

#### `--force-node-api-uncaught-exceptions-policy`#

Added in: v18.3.0, v16.17.0

Enforces `uncaughtException` event on Node-API asynchronous callbacks.

To prevent from an existing add-on from crashing the process, this flag is not
enabled by default. In the future, this flag will be enabled by default to
enforce the correct behavior.

#### `--frozen-intrinsics`#

Added in: v11.12.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Enable experimental frozen intrinsics like `Array` and `Object`.

Only the root context is supported. There is no guarantee that
`globalThis.Array` is indeed the default intrinsic reference. Code may break
under this flag.

To allow polyfills to be added, `--require` and `--import` both run before
freezing intrinsics.

#### `--heap-prof`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.4.0, v20.16.0 | The `--heap-prof` flags are now stable.  
v12.4.0 | Added in: v12.4.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

Starts the V8 heap profiler on start up, and writes the heap profile to disk
before exit.

If `--heap-prof-dir` is not specified, the generated profile is placed in the
current working directory.

If `--heap-prof-name` is not specified, the generated profile is named
`Heap.${yyyymmdd}.${hhmmss}.${pid}.${tid}.${seq}.heapprofile`.

    
    
    $ node --heap-prof index.js
    $ ls *.heapprofile
    Heap.20190409.202950.15293.0.001.heapprofile copy

#### `--heap-prof-dir`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.4.0, v20.16.0 | The `--heap-prof` flags are now stable.  
v12.4.0 | Added in: v12.4.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

Specify the directory where the heap profiles generated by `--heap-prof` will
be placed.

The default value is controlled by the `--diagnostic-dir` command-line option.

#### `--heap-prof-interval`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.4.0, v20.16.0 | The `--heap-prof` flags are now stable.  
v12.4.0 | Added in: v12.4.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

Specify the average sampling interval in bytes for the heap profiles generated
by `--heap-prof`. The default is 512 * 1024 bytes.

#### `--heap-prof-name`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.4.0, v20.16.0 | The `--heap-prof` flags are now stable.  
v12.4.0 | Added in: v12.4.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

Specify the file name of the heap profile generated by `--heap-prof`.

#### `--heapsnapshot-near-heap-limit=max_count`#

Added in: v15.1.0, v14.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Writes a V8 heap snapshot to disk when the V8 heap usage is approaching the
heap limit. `count` should be a non-negative integer (in which case Node.js
will write no more than `max_count` snapshots to disk).

When generating snapshots, garbage collection may be triggered and bring the
heap usage down. Therefore multiple snapshots may be written to disk before
the Node.js instance finally runs out of memory. These heap snapshots can be
compared to determine what objects are being allocated during the time
consecutive snapshots are taken. It's not guaranteed that Node.js will write
exactly `max_count` snapshots to disk, but it will try its best to generate at
least one and up to `max_count` snapshots before the Node.js instance runs out
of memory when `max_count` is greater than `0`.

Generating V8 snapshots takes time and memory (both memory managed by the V8
heap and native memory outside the V8 heap). The bigger the heap is, the more
resources it needs. Node.js will adjust the V8 heap to accommodate the
additional V8 heap memory overhead, and try its best to avoid using up all the
memory available to the process. When the process uses more memory than the
system deems appropriate, the process may be terminated abruptly by the
system, depending on the system configuration.

    
    
    $ node --max-old-space-size=100 --heapsnapshot-near-heap-limit=3 index.js
    Wrote snapshot to Heap.20200430.100036.49580.0.001.heapsnapshot
    Wrote snapshot to Heap.20200430.100037.49580.0.002.heapsnapshot
    Wrote snapshot to Heap.20200430.100038.49580.0.003.heapsnapshot
    
    <--- Last few GCs --->
    
    [49580:0x110000000]     4826 ms: Mark-sweep 130.6 (147.8) -> 130.5 (147.8) MB, 27.4 / 0.0 ms  (average mu = 0.126, current mu = 0.034) allocation failure scavenge might not succeed
    [49580:0x110000000]     4845 ms: Mark-sweep 130.6 (147.8) -> 130.6 (147.8) MB, 18.8 / 0.0 ms  (average mu = 0.088, current mu = 0.031) allocation failure scavenge might not succeed
    
    
    <--- JS stacktrace --->
    
    FATAL ERROR: Ineffective mark-compacts near heap limit Allocation failed - JavaScript heap out of memory
    .... copy

#### `--heapsnapshot-signal=signal`#

Added in: v12.0.0

Enables a signal handler that causes the Node.js process to write a heap dump
when the specified signal is received. `signal` must be a valid signal name.
Disabled by default.

    
    
    $ node --heapsnapshot-signal=SIGUSR2 index.js &
    $ ps aux
    USER       PID %CPU %MEM    VSZ   RSS TTY      STAT START   TIME COMMAND
    node         1  5.5  6.1 787252 247004 ?       Ssl  16:43   0:02 node --heapsnapshot-signal=SIGUSR2 index.js
    $ kill -USR2 1
    $ ls
    Heap.20190718.133405.15554.0.001.heapsnapshot copy

#### `-h`, `--help`#

Added in: v0.1.3

Print node command-line options. The output of this option is less detailed
than this document.

#### `--icu-data-dir=file`#

Added in: v0.11.15

Specify ICU data load path. (Overrides `NODE_ICU_DATA`.)

#### `--import=module`#

Added in: v19.0.0, v18.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Preload the specified module at startup. If the flag is provided several
times, each module will be executed sequentially in the order they appear,
starting with the ones provided in `NODE_OPTIONS`.

Follows ECMAScript module resolution rules. Use `--require` to load a
[CommonJS module](modules.html). Modules preloaded with `--require` will run
before modules preloaded with `--import`.

Modules are preloaded into the main thread as well as any worker threads,
forked processes, or clustered processes.

#### `--input-type=type`#

Added in: v12.0.0

This configures Node.js to interpret `--eval` or `STDIN` input as CommonJS or
as an ES module. Valid values are `"commonjs"`, `"module"`, `"module-
typescript"` and `"commonjs-typescript"`. The `"-typescript"` values are not
available with the flag `--no-experimental-strip-types`. The default is
`"commonjs"`.

If `--input-type` is not provided, Node.js will try to detect the syntax with
the following steps:

  1. Run the input as CommonJS.
  2. If step 1 fails, run the input as an ES module.
  3. If step 2 fails with a SyntaxError, strip the types.
  4. If step 3 fails with an error code `ERR_UNSUPPORTED_TYPESCRIPT_SYNTAX` or `ERR_INVALID_TYPESCRIPT_SYNTAX`, throw the error from step 2, including the TypeScript error in the message, else run as CommonJS.
  5. If step 4 fails, run the input as an ES module.

To avoid the delay of multiple syntax detection passes, the `--input-
type=type` flag can be used to specify how the `--eval` input should be
interpreted.

The REPL does not support this option. Usage of `--input-type=module` with
`--print` will throw an error, as `--print` does not support ES module syntax.

#### `--insecure-http-parser`#

Added in: v13.4.0, v12.15.0, v10.19.0

Enable leniency flags on the HTTP parser. This may allow interoperability with
non-conformant HTTP implementations.

When enabled, the parser will accept the following:

  * Invalid HTTP headers values.
  * Invalid HTTP versions.
  * Allow message containing both `Transfer-Encoding` and `Content-Length` headers.
  * Allow extra data after message when `Connection: close` is present.
  * Allow extra transfer encodings after `chunked` has been provided.
  * Allow `\n` to be used as token separator instead of `\r\n`.
  * Allow `\r\n` not to be provided after a chunk.
  * Allow spaces to be present after a chunk size and before `\r\n`.

All the above will expose your application to request smuggling or poisoning
attack. Avoid using this option.

##### Warning: binding inspector to a public IP:port combination is insecure#

Binding the inspector to a public IP (including `0.0.0.0`) with an open port
is insecure, as it allows external hosts to connect to the inspector and
perform a [remote code
execution](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Code_Injection) attack.

If specifying a host, make sure that either:

  * The host is not accessible from public networks.
  * A firewall disallows unwanted connections on the port.

**More specifically,`--inspect=0.0.0.0` is insecure if the port (`9229` by
default) is not firewall-protected.**

See the [debugging security
implications](https://nodejs.org/en/docs/guides/debugging-getting-
started/#security-implications) section for more information.

#### `--inspect-brk[=[host:]port]`#

Added in: v7.6.0

Activate inspector on `host:port` and break at start of user script. Default
`host:port` is `127.0.0.1:9229`. If port `0` is specified, a random available
port will be used.

See V8 Inspector integration for Node.js for further explanation on Node.js
debugger.

#### `--inspect-port=[host:]port`#

Added in: v7.6.0

Set the `host:port` to be used when the inspector is activated. Useful when
activating the inspector by sending the `SIGUSR1` signal. Except when
`--disable-sigusr1` is passed.

Default host is `127.0.0.1`. If port `0` is specified, a random available port
will be used.

See the security warning below regarding the `host` parameter usage.

#### `--inspect-publish-uid=stderr,http`#

Specify ways of the inspector web socket url exposure.

By default inspector websocket url is available in stderr and under
`/json/list` endpoint on `http://host:port/json/list`.

#### `--inspect-wait[=[host:]port]`#

Added in: v22.2.0, v20.15.0

Activate inspector on `host:port` and wait for debugger to be attached.
Default `host:port` is `127.0.0.1:9229`. If port `0` is specified, a random
available port will be used.

See V8 Inspector integration for Node.js for further explanation on Node.js
debugger.

#### `--inspect[=[host:]port]`#

Added in: v6.3.0

Activate inspector on `host:port`. Default is `127.0.0.1:9229`. If port `0` is
specified, a random available port will be used.

V8 inspector integration allows tools such as Chrome DevTools and IDEs to
debug and profile Node.js instances. The tools attach to Node.js instances via
a tcp port and communicate using the [Chrome DevTools
Protocol](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol/). See V8
Inspector integration for Node.js for further explanation on Node.js debugger.

#### `-i`, `--interactive`#

Added in: v0.7.7

Opens the REPL even if stdin does not appear to be a terminal.

#### `--jitless`#

Added in: v12.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental. This flag is inherited from V8 and is subject to
change upstream.

Disable [runtime allocation of executable
memory](https://v8.dev/blog/jitless). This may be required on some platforms
for security reasons. It can also reduce attack surface on other platforms,
but the performance impact may be severe.

#### `--localstorage-file=file`#

Added in: v22.4.0

The file used to store `localStorage` data. If the file does not exist, it is
created the first time `localStorage` is accessed. The same file may be shared
between multiple Node.js processes concurrently. This flag is a no-op unless
Node.js is started with the `--experimental-webstorage` flag.

#### `--max-http-header-size=size`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.13.0 | Change maximum default size of HTTP headers from 8 KiB to 16 KiB.  
v11.6.0, v10.15.0 | Added in: v11.6.0, v10.15.0  
  
Specify the maximum size, in bytes, of HTTP headers. Defaults to 16 KiB.

#### `--napi-modules`#

Added in: v7.10.0

This option is a no-op. It is kept for compatibility.

#### `--network-family-autoselection-attempt-timeout`#

Added in: v22.1.0, v20.13.0

Sets the default value for the network family autoselection attempt timeout.
For more information, see `net.getDefaultAutoSelectFamilyAttemptTimeout()`.

#### `--no-addons`#

Added in: v16.10.0, v14.19.0

Disable the `node-addons` exports condition as well as disable loading native
addons. When `--no-addons` is specified, calling `process.dlopen` or requiring
a native C++ addon will fail and throw an exception.

#### `--no-deprecation`#

Added in: v0.8.0

Silence deprecation warnings.

#### `--no-experimental-detect-module`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.7.0 | Syntax detection is enabled by default.  
v21.1.0, v20.10.0 | Added in: v21.1.0, v20.10.0  
  
Disable using syntax detection to determine module type.

#### `--no-experimental-global-navigator`#

Added in: v21.2.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Disable exposition of Navigator API on the global scope.

#### `--no-experimental-repl-await`#

Added in: v16.6.0

Use this flag to disable top-level await in REPL.

#### `--no-experimental-require-module`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | This is now false by default.  
v22.0.0, v20.17.0 | Added in: v22.0.0, v20.17.0  
  
Stability: 1.1 - Active Development

Disable support for loading a synchronous ES module graph in `require()`.

See Loading ECMAScript modules using `require()`.

#### `--no-experimental-sqlite`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.4.0 | SQLite is unflagged but still experimental.  
v22.5.0 | Added in: v22.5.0  
  
Disable the experimental [`node:sqlite`](sqlite.html) module.

#### `--no-experimental-strip-types`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.6.0 | Type stripping is enabled by default.  
v22.6.0 | Added in: v22.6.0  
  
Stability: 1.1 - Active development

Disable experimental type-stripping for TypeScript files. For more
information, see the TypeScript type-stripping documentation.

#### `--no-experimental-websocket`#

Added in: v22.0.0

Disable exposition of [`WebSocket`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/WebSocket) on the global scope.

#### `--no-extra-info-on-fatal-exception`#

Added in: v17.0.0

Hide extra information on fatal exception that causes exit.

#### `--no-force-async-hooks-checks`#

Added in: v9.0.0

Disables runtime checks for `async_hooks`. These will still be enabled
dynamically when `async_hooks` is enabled.

#### `--no-global-search-paths`#

Added in: v16.10.0

Do not search modules from global paths like `$HOME/.node_modules` and
`$NODE_PATH`.

#### `--no-network-family-autoselection`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | The flag was renamed from `--no-enable-network-family-autoselection` to `--no-network-family-autoselection`. The old name can still work as an alias.  
v19.4.0 | Added in: v19.4.0  
  
Disables the family autoselection algorithm unless connection options
explicitly enables it.

#### `--no-warnings`#

Added in: v6.0.0

Silence all process warnings (including deprecations).

#### `--node-memory-debug`#

Added in: v15.0.0, v14.18.0

Enable extra debug checks for memory leaks in Node.js internals. This is
usually only useful for developers debugging Node.js itself.

#### `--openssl-config=file`#

Added in: v6.9.0

Load an OpenSSL configuration file on startup. Among other uses, this can be
used to enable FIPS-compliant crypto if Node.js is built against FIPS-enabled
OpenSSL.

#### `--openssl-legacy-provider`#

Added in: v17.0.0, v16.17.0

Enable OpenSSL 3.0 legacy provider. For more information please see
[OSSL_PROVIDER-legacy](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man3.0/man7/OSSL_PROVIDER-
legacy.html).

#### `--openssl-shared-config`#

Added in: v18.5.0, v16.17.0, v14.21.0

Enable OpenSSL default configuration section, `openssl_conf` to be read from
the OpenSSL configuration file. The default configuration file is named
`openssl.cnf` but this can be changed using the environment variable
`OPENSSL_CONF`, or by using the command line option `--openssl-config`. The
location of the default OpenSSL configuration file depends on how OpenSSL is
being linked to Node.js. Sharing the OpenSSL configuration may have unwanted
implications and it is recommended to use a configuration section specific to
Node.js which is `nodejs_conf` and is default when this option is not used.

#### `--pending-deprecation`#

Added in: v8.0.0

Emit pending deprecation warnings.

Pending deprecations are generally identical to a runtime deprecation with the
notable exception that they are turned _off_ by default and will not be
emitted unless either the `--pending-deprecation` command-line flag, or the
`NODE_PENDING_DEPRECATION=1` environment variable, is set. Pending
deprecations are used to provide a kind of selective "early warning" mechanism
that developers may leverage to detect deprecated API usage.

#### `--permission`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.5.0 | Permission Model is now stable.  
v20.0.0 | Added in: v20.0.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable.

Enable the Permission Model for current process. When enabled, the following
permissions are restricted:

  * File System - manageable through `--allow-fs-read`, `--allow-fs-write` flags
  * Child Process - manageable through `--allow-child-process` flag
  * Worker Threads - manageable through `--allow-worker` flag
  * WASI - manageable through `--allow-wasi` flag
  * Addons - manageable through `--allow-addons` flag

#### `--preserve-symlinks`#

Added in: v6.3.0

Instructs the module loader to preserve symbolic links when resolving and
caching modules.

By default, when Node.js loads a module from a path that is symbolically
linked to a different on-disk location, Node.js will dereference the link and
use the actual on-disk "real path" of the module as both an identifier and as
a root path to locate other dependency modules. In most cases, this default
behavior is acceptable. However, when using symbolically linked peer
dependencies, as illustrated in the example below, the default behavior causes
an exception to be thrown if `moduleA` attempts to require `moduleB` as a peer
dependency:

    
    
    {appDir}
     ├── app
     │   ├── index.js
     │   └── node_modules
     │       ├── moduleA -> {appDir}/moduleA
     │       └── moduleB
     │           ├── index.js
     │           └── package.json
     └── moduleA
         ├── index.js
         └── package.json copy

The `--preserve-symlinks` command-line flag instructs Node.js to use the
symlink path for modules as opposed to the real path, allowing symbolically
linked peer dependencies to be found.

Note, however, that using `--preserve-symlinks` can have other side effects.
Specifically, symbolically linked _native_ modules can fail to load if those
are linked from more than one location in the dependency tree (Node.js would
see those as two separate modules and would attempt to load the module
multiple times, causing an exception to be thrown).

The `--preserve-symlinks` flag does not apply to the main module, which allows
`node --preserve-symlinks node_module/.bin/<foo>` to work. To apply the same
behavior for the main module, also use `--preserve-symlinks-main`.

#### `--preserve-symlinks-main`#

Added in: v10.2.0

Instructs the module loader to preserve symbolic links when resolving and
caching the main module (`require.main`).

This flag exists so that the main module can be opted-in to the same behavior
that `--preserve-symlinks` gives to all other imports; they are separate
flags, however, for backward compatibility with older Node.js versions.

`--preserve-symlinks-main` does not imply `--preserve-symlinks`; use
`--preserve-symlinks-main` in addition to `--preserve-symlinks` when it is not
desirable to follow symlinks before resolving relative paths.

See `--preserve-symlinks` for more information.

#### `-p`, `--print "script"`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v5.11.0 | Built-in libraries are now available as predefined variables.  
v0.6.4 | Added in: v0.6.4  
  
Identical to `-e` but prints the result.

#### `--prof`#

Added in: v2.0.0

Generate V8 profiler output.

#### `--prof-process`#

Added in: v5.2.0

Process V8 profiler output generated using the V8 option `--prof`.

#### `--redirect-warnings=file`#

Added in: v8.0.0

Write process warnings to the given file instead of printing to stderr. The
file will be created if it does not exist, and will be appended to if it does.
If an error occurs while attempting to write the warning to the file, the
warning will be written to stderr instead.

The `file` name may be an absolute path. If it is not, the default directory
it will be written to is controlled by the `--diagnostic-dir` command-line
option.

#### `--report-compact`#

Added in: v13.12.0, v12.17.0

Write reports in a compact format, single-line JSON, more easily consumable by
log processing systems than the default multi-line format designed for human
consumption.

#### `--report-dir=directory`, `report-directory=directory`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.12.0, v12.17.0 | This option is no longer experimental.  
v12.0.0 | Changed from `--diagnostic-report-directory` to `--report-directory`.  
v11.8.0 | Added in: v11.8.0  
  
Location at which the report will be generated.

#### `--report-exclude-env`#

Added in: v23.3.0

When `--report-exclude-env` is passed the diagnostic report generated will not
contain the `environmentVariables` data.

#### `--report-exclude-network`#

Added in: v22.0.0, v20.13.0

Exclude `header.networkInterfaces` from the diagnostic report. By default this
is not set and the network interfaces are included.

#### `--report-filename=filename`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.12.0, v12.17.0 | This option is no longer experimental.  
v12.0.0 | changed from `--diagnostic-report-filename` to `--report-filename`.  
v11.8.0 | Added in: v11.8.0  
  
Name of the file to which the report will be written.

If the filename is set to `'stdout'` or `'stderr'`, the report is written to
the stdout or stderr of the process respectively.

#### `--report-on-fatalerror`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0, v13.14.0, v12.17.0 | This option is no longer experimental.  
v12.0.0 | changed from `--diagnostic-report-on-fatalerror` to `--report-on-fatalerror`.  
v11.8.0 | Added in: v11.8.0  
  
Enables the report to be triggered on fatal errors (internal errors within the
Node.js runtime such as out of memory) that lead to termination of the
application. Useful to inspect various diagnostic data elements such as heap,
stack, event loop state, resource consumption etc. to reason about the fatal
error.

#### `--report-on-signal`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.12.0, v12.17.0 | This option is no longer experimental.  
v12.0.0 | changed from `--diagnostic-report-on-signal` to `--report-on-signal`.  
v11.8.0 | Added in: v11.8.0  
  
Enables report to be generated upon receiving the specified (or predefined)
signal to the running Node.js process. The signal to trigger the report is
specified through `--report-signal`.

#### `--report-signal=signal`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.12.0, v12.17.0 | This option is no longer experimental.  
v12.0.0 | changed from `--diagnostic-report-signal` to `--report-signal`.  
v11.8.0 | Added in: v11.8.0  
  
Sets or resets the signal for report generation (not supported on Windows).
Default signal is `SIGUSR2`.

#### `--report-uncaught-exception`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.8.0, v16.18.0 | Report is not generated if the uncaught exception is handled.  
v13.12.0, v12.17.0 | This option is no longer experimental.  
v12.0.0 | changed from `--diagnostic-report-uncaught-exception` to `--report-uncaught-exception`.  
v11.8.0 | Added in: v11.8.0  
  
Enables report to be generated when the process exits due to an uncaught
exception. Useful when inspecting the JavaScript stack in conjunction with
native stack and other runtime environment data.

#### `-r`, `--require module`#

Added in: v1.6.0

Preload the specified module at startup.

Follows `require()`'s module resolution rules. `module` may be either a path
to a file, or a node module name.

Only CommonJS modules are supported. Use `--import` to preload an ECMAScript
module. Modules preloaded with `--require` will run before modules preloaded
with `--import`.

Modules are preloaded into the main thread as well as any worker threads,
forked processes, or clustered processes.

#### `--run`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.3.0 | NODE_RUN_SCRIPT_NAME environment variable is added.  
v22.3.0 | NODE_RUN_PACKAGE_JSON_PATH environment variable is added.  
v22.3.0 | Traverses up to the root directory and finds a `package.json` file to run the command from, and updates `PATH` environment variable accordingly.  
v22.0.0 | Added in: v22.0.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

This runs a specified command from a package.json's `"scripts"` object. If a
missing `"command"` is provided, it will list the available scripts.

`--run` will traverse up to the root directory and finds a `package.json` file
to run the command from.

`--run` prepends `./node_modules/.bin` for each ancestor of the current
directory, to the `PATH` in order to execute the binaries from different
folders where multiple `node_modules` directories are present, if `ancestor-
folder/node_modules/.bin` is a directory.

`--run` executes the command in the directory containing the related
`package.json`.

For example, the following command will run the `test` script of the
`package.json` in the current folder:

    
    
    $ node --run test copy

You can also pass arguments to the command. Any argument after `--` will be
appended to the script:

    
    
    $ node --run test -- --verbose copy

##### Intentional limitations#

`node --run` is not meant to match the behaviors of `npm run` or of the `run`
commands of other package managers. The Node.js implementation is
intentionally more limited, in order to focus on top performance for the most
common use cases. Some features of other `run` implementations that are
intentionally excluded are:

  * Running `pre` or `post` scripts in addition to the specified script.
  * Defining package manager-specific environment variables.

##### Environment variables#

The following environment variables are set when running a script with
`--run`:

  * `NODE_RUN_SCRIPT_NAME`: The name of the script being run. For example, if `--run` is used to run `test`, the value of this variable will be `test`.
  * `NODE_RUN_PACKAGE_JSON_PATH`: The path to the `package.json` that is being processed.

#### `--secure-heap-min=n`#

Added in: v15.6.0

When using `--secure-heap`, the `--secure-heap-min` flag specifies the minimum
allocation from the secure heap. The minimum value is `2`. The maximum value
is the lesser of `--secure-heap` or `2147483647`. The value given must be a
power of two.

#### `--secure-heap=n`#

Added in: v15.6.0

Initializes an OpenSSL secure heap of `n` bytes. When initialized, the secure
heap is used for selected types of allocations within OpenSSL during key
generation and other operations. This is useful, for instance, to prevent
sensitive information from leaking due to pointer overruns or underruns.

The secure heap is a fixed size and cannot be resized at runtime so, if used,
it is important to select a large enough heap to cover all application uses.

The heap size given must be a power of two. Any value less than 2 will disable
the secure heap.

The secure heap is disabled by default.

The secure heap is not available on Windows.

See
[`CRYPTO_secure_malloc_init`](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man3.0/man3/CRYPTO_secure_malloc_init.html)
for more details.

#### `--snapshot-blob=path`#

Added in: v18.8.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

When used with `--build-snapshot`, `--snapshot-blob` specifies the path where
the generated snapshot blob is written to. If not specified, the generated
blob is written to `snapshot.blob` in the current working directory.

When used without `--build-snapshot`, `--snapshot-blob` specifies the path to
the blob that is used to restore the application state.

When loading a snapshot, Node.js checks that:

  1. The version, architecture, and platform of the running Node.js binary are exactly the same as that of the binary that generates the snapshot.
  2. The V8 flags and CPU features are compatible with that of the binary that generates the snapshot.

If they don't match, Node.js refuses to load the snapshot and exits with
status code 1.

#### `--test`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | The test runner is now stable.  
v19.2.0, v18.13.0 | Test runner now supports running in watch mode.  
v18.1.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.1.0, v16.17.0  
  
Starts the Node.js command line test runner. This flag cannot be combined with
`--watch-path`, `--check`, `--eval`, `--interactive`, or the inspector. See
the documentation on running tests from the command line for more details.

#### `--test-concurrency`#

Added in: v21.0.0, v20.10.0, v18.19.0

The maximum number of test files that the test runner CLI will execute
concurrently. If `--test-isolation` is set to `'none'`, this flag is ignored
and concurrency is one. Otherwise, concurrency defaults to
`os.availableParallelism() - 1`.

#### `--test-coverage-branches=threshold`#

Added in: v22.8.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Require a minimum percent of covered branches. If code coverage does not reach
the threshold specified, the process will exit with code `1`.

#### `--test-coverage-exclude`#

Added in: v22.5.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Excludes specific files from code coverage using a glob pattern, which can
match both absolute and relative file paths.

This option may be specified multiple times to exclude multiple glob patterns.

If both `--test-coverage-exclude` and `--test-coverage-include` are provided,
files must meet **both** criteria to be included in the coverage report.

By default all the matching test files are excluded from the coverage report.
Specifying this option will override the default behavior.

#### `--test-coverage-functions=threshold`#

Added in: v22.8.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Require a minimum percent of covered functions. If code coverage does not
reach the threshold specified, the process will exit with code `1`.

#### `--test-coverage-include`#

Added in: v22.5.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Includes specific files in code coverage using a glob pattern, which can match
both absolute and relative file paths.

This option may be specified multiple times to include multiple glob patterns.

If both `--test-coverage-exclude` and `--test-coverage-include` are provided,
files must meet **both** criteria to be included in the coverage report.

#### `--test-coverage-lines=threshold`#

Added in: v22.8.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Require a minimum percent of covered lines. If code coverage does not reach
the threshold specified, the process will exit with code `1`.

#### `--test-force-exit`#

Added in: v22.0.0, v20.14.0

Configures the test runner to exit the process once all known tests have
finished executing even if the event loop would otherwise remain active.

#### `--test-isolation=mode`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.6.0 | This flag was renamed from `--experimental-test-isolation` to `--test-isolation`.  
v22.8.0 | Added in: v22.8.0  
  
Configures the type of test isolation used in the test runner. When `mode` is
`'process'`, each test file is run in a separate child process. When `mode` is
`'none'`, all test files run in the same process as the test runner. The
default isolation mode is `'process'`. This flag is ignored if the `--test`
flag is not present. See the test runner execution model section for more
information.

#### `--test-name-pattern`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | The test runner is now stable.  
v18.11.0 | Added in: v18.11.0  
  
A regular expression that configures the test runner to only execute tests
whose name matches the provided pattern. See the documentation on filtering
tests by name for more details.

If both `--test-name-pattern` and `--test-skip-pattern` are supplied, tests
must satisfy **both** requirements in order to be executed.

#### `--test-only`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | The test runner is now stable.  
v18.0.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.0.0, v16.17.0  
  
Configures the test runner to only execute top level tests that have the
`only` option set. This flag is not necessary when test isolation is disabled.

#### `--test-reporter`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | The test runner is now stable.  
v19.6.0, v18.15.0 | Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0  
  
A test reporter to use when running tests. See the documentation on test
reporters for more details.

#### `--test-reporter-destination`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | The test runner is now stable.  
v19.6.0, v18.15.0 | Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0  
  
The destination for the corresponding test reporter. See the documentation on
test reporters for more details.

#### `--test-shard`#

Added in: v20.5.0, v18.19.0

Test suite shard to execute in a format of `<index>/<total>`, where

`index` is a positive integer, index of divided parts `total` is a positive
integer, total of divided part This command will divide all tests files into
`total` equal parts, and will run only those that happen to be in an `index`
part.

For example, to split your tests suite into three parts, use this:

    
    
    node --test --test-shard=1/3
    node --test --test-shard=2/3
    node --test --test-shard=3/3 copy

#### `--test-skip-pattern`#

Added in: v22.1.0

A regular expression that configures the test runner to skip tests whose name
matches the provided pattern. See the documentation on filtering tests by name
for more details.

If both `--test-name-pattern` and `--test-skip-pattern` are supplied, tests
must satisfy **both** requirements in order to be executed.

#### `--test-timeout`#

Added in: v21.2.0, v20.11.0

A number of milliseconds the test execution will fail after. If unspecified,
subtests inherit this value from their parent. The default value is
`Infinity`.

#### `--test-update-snapshots`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.4.0 | Snapsnot testing is no longer experimental.  
v22.3.0 | Added in: v22.3.0  
  
Regenerates the snapshot files used by the test runner for snapshot testing.

#### `--throw-deprecation`#

Added in: v0.11.14

Throw errors for deprecations.

#### `--title=title`#

Added in: v10.7.0

Set `process.title` on startup.

#### `--tls-cipher-list=list`#

Added in: v4.0.0

Specify an alternative default TLS cipher list. Requires Node.js to be built
with crypto support (default).

#### `--tls-keylog=file`#

Added in: v13.2.0, v12.16.0

Log TLS key material to a file. The key material is in NSS `SSLKEYLOGFILE`
format and can be used by software (such as Wireshark) to decrypt the TLS
traffic.

#### `--tls-max-v1.2`#

Added in: v12.0.0, v10.20.0

Set `tls.DEFAULT_MAX_VERSION` to 'TLSv1.2'. Use to disable support for
TLSv1.3.

#### `--tls-max-v1.3`#

Added in: v12.0.0

Set default `tls.DEFAULT_MAX_VERSION` to 'TLSv1.3'. Use to enable support for
TLSv1.3.

#### `--tls-min-v1.0`#

Added in: v12.0.0, v10.20.0

Set default `tls.DEFAULT_MIN_VERSION` to 'TLSv1'. Use for compatibility with
old TLS clients or servers.

#### `--tls-min-v1.1`#

Added in: v12.0.0, v10.20.0

Set default `tls.DEFAULT_MIN_VERSION` to 'TLSv1.1'. Use for compatibility with
old TLS clients or servers.

#### `--tls-min-v1.2`#

Added in: v12.2.0, v10.20.0

Set default `tls.DEFAULT_MIN_VERSION` to 'TLSv1.2'. This is the default for
12.x and later, but the option is supported for compatibility with older
Node.js versions.

#### `--tls-min-v1.3`#

Added in: v12.0.0

Set default `tls.DEFAULT_MIN_VERSION` to 'TLSv1.3'. Use to disable support for
TLSv1.2, which is not as secure as TLSv1.3.

#### `--trace-deprecation`#

Added in: v0.8.0

Print stack traces for deprecations.

#### `--trace-env`#

Added in: v23.4.0

Print information about any access to environment variables done in the
current Node.js instance to stderr, including:

  * The environment variable reads that Node.js does internally.
  * Writes in the form of `process.env.KEY = "SOME VALUE"`.
  * Reads in the form of `process.env.KEY`.
  * Definitions in the form of `Object.defineProperty(process.env, 'KEY', {...})`.
  * Queries in the form of `Object.hasOwn(process.env, 'KEY')`, `process.env.hasOwnProperty('KEY')` or `'KEY' in process.env`.
  * Deletions in the form of `delete process.env.KEY`.
  * Enumerations inf the form of `...process.env` or `Object.keys(process.env)`.

Only the names of the environment variables being accessed are printed. The
values are not printed.

To print the stack trace of the access, use `--trace-env-js-stack` and/or
`--trace-env-native-stack`.

#### `--trace-env-js-stack`#

Added in: v23.4.0

In addition to what `--trace-env` does, this prints the JavaScript stack trace
of the access.

#### `--trace-env-native-stack`#

Added in: v23.4.0

In addition to what `--trace-env` does, this prints the native stack trace of
the access.

#### `--trace-event-categories`#

Added in: v7.7.0

A comma separated list of categories that should be traced when trace event
tracing is enabled using `--trace-events-enabled`.

#### `--trace-event-file-pattern`#

Added in: v9.8.0

Template string specifying the filepath for the trace event data, it supports
`${rotation}` and `${pid}`.

#### `--trace-events-enabled`#

Added in: v7.7.0

Enables the collection of trace event tracing information.

#### `--trace-exit`#

Added in: v13.5.0, v12.16.0

Prints a stack trace whenever an environment is exited proactively, i.e.
invoking `process.exit()`.

#### `--trace-require-module=mode`#

Added in: v23.5.0

Prints information about usage of Loading ECMAScript modules using
`require()`.

When `mode` is `all`, all usage is printed. When `mode` is `no-node-modules`,
usage from the `node_modules` folder is excluded.

#### `--trace-sigint`#

Added in: v13.9.0, v12.17.0

Prints a stack trace on SIGINT.

#### `--trace-sync-io`#

Added in: v2.1.0

Prints a stack trace whenever synchronous I/O is detected after the first turn
of the event loop.

#### `--trace-tls`#

Added in: v12.2.0

Prints TLS packet trace information to `stderr`. This can be used to debug TLS
connection problems.

#### `--trace-uncaught`#

Added in: v13.1.0

Print stack traces for uncaught exceptions; usually, the stack trace
associated with the creation of an `Error` is printed, whereas this makes
Node.js also print the stack trace associated with throwing the value (which
does not need to be an `Error` instance).

Enabling this option may affect garbage collection behavior negatively.

#### `--trace-warnings`#

Added in: v6.0.0

Print stack traces for process warnings (including deprecations).

#### `--track-heap-objects`#

Added in: v2.4.0

Track heap object allocations for heap snapshots.

#### `--unhandled-rejections=mode`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | Changed default mode to `throw`. Previously, a warning was emitted.  
v12.0.0, v10.17.0 | Added in: v12.0.0, v10.17.0  
  
Using this flag allows to change what should happen when an unhandled
rejection occurs. One of the following modes can be chosen:

  * `throw`: Emit `unhandledRejection`. If this hook is not set, raise the unhandled rejection as an uncaught exception. This is the default.
  * `strict`: Raise the unhandled rejection as an uncaught exception. If the exception is handled, `unhandledRejection` is emitted.
  * `warn`: Always trigger a warning, no matter if the `unhandledRejection` hook is set or not but do not print the deprecation warning.
  * `warn-with-error-code`: Emit `unhandledRejection`. If this hook is not set, trigger a warning, and set the process exit code to 1.
  * `none`: Silence all warnings.

If a rejection happens during the command line entry point's ES module static
loading phase, it will always raise it as an uncaught exception.

#### `--use-bundled-ca`, `--use-openssl-ca`#

Added in: v6.11.0

Use bundled Mozilla CA store as supplied by current Node.js version or use
OpenSSL's default CA store. The default store is selectable at build-time.

The bundled CA store, as supplied by Node.js, is a snapshot of Mozilla CA
store that is fixed at release time. It is identical on all supported
platforms.

Using OpenSSL store allows for external modifications of the store. For most
Linux and BSD distributions, this store is maintained by the distribution
maintainers and system administrators. OpenSSL CA store location is dependent
on configuration of the OpenSSL library but this can be altered at runtime
using environment variables.

See `SSL_CERT_DIR` and `SSL_CERT_FILE`.

#### `--use-largepages=mode`#

Added in: v13.6.0, v12.17.0

Re-map the Node.js static code to large memory pages at startup. If supported
on the target system, this will cause the Node.js static code to be moved onto
2 MiB pages instead of 4 KiB pages.

The following values are valid for `mode`:

  * `off`: No mapping will be attempted. This is the default.
  * `on`: If supported by the OS, mapping will be attempted. Failure to map will be ignored and a message will be printed to standard error.
  * `silent`: If supported by the OS, mapping will be attempted. Failure to map will be ignored and will not be reported.

#### `--use-system-ca`#

Node.js uses the trusted CA certificates present in the system store along
with the `--use-bundled-ca` option and the `NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS` environment
variable. On platforms other than Windows and macOS, this loads certificates
from the directory and file trusted by OpenSSL, similar to `--use-openssl-ca`,
with the difference being that it caches the certificates after first load.

On Windows and macOS, the certificate trust policy is planned to follow
[Chromium's policy for locally trusted
certificates](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/main/net/data/ssl/chrome_root_store/faq.md#does-
the-chrome-certificate-verifier-consider-local-trust-decisions):

On macOS, the following settings are respected:

  * Default and System Keychains 
    * Trust: 
      * Any certificate where the “When using this certificate” flag is set to “Always Trust” or
      * Any certificate where the “Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)” flag is set to “Always Trust.”
    * Distrust: 
      * Any certificate where the “When using this certificate” flag is set to “Never Trust” or
      * Any certificate where the “Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)” flag is set to “Never Trust.”

On Windows, the following settings are respected (unlike Chromium's policy,
distrust and intermediate CA are not currently supported):

  * Local Machine (accessed via `certlm.msc`) 
    * Trust: 
      * Trusted Root Certification Authorities
      * Trusted People
      * Enterprise Trust -> Enterprise -> Trusted Root Certification Authorities
      * Enterprise Trust -> Enterprise -> Trusted People
      * Enterprise Trust -> Group Policy -> Trusted Root Certification Authorities
      * Enterprise Trust -> Group Policy -> Trusted People
  * Current User (accessed via `certmgr.msc`) 
    * Trust: 
      * Trusted Root Certification Authorities
      * Enterprise Trust -> Group Policy -> Trusted Root Certification Authorities

On Windows and macOS, Node.js would check that the user settings for the
certificates do not forbid them for TLS server authentication before using
them.

On other systems, Node.js loads certificates from the default certificate file
(typically `/etc/ssl/cert.pem`) and default certificate directory (typically
`/etc/ssl/certs`) that the version of OpenSSL that Node.js links to respects.
This typically works with the convention on major Linux distributions and
other Unix-like systems. If the overriding OpenSSL environment variables
(typically `SSL_CERT_FILE` and `SSL_CERT_DIR`, depending on the configuration
of the OpenSSL that Node.js links to) are set, the specified paths will be
used to load certificates instead. These environment variables can be used as
workarounds if the conventional paths used by the version of OpenSSL Node.js
links to are not consistent with the system configuration that the users have
for some reason.

#### `--v8-options`#

Added in: v0.1.3

Print V8 command-line options.

#### `--v8-pool-size=num`#

Added in: v5.10.0

Set V8's thread pool size which will be used to allocate background jobs.

If set to `0` then Node.js will choose an appropriate size of the thread pool
based on an estimate of the amount of parallelism.

The amount of parallelism refers to the number of computations that can be
carried out simultaneously in a given machine. In general, it's the same as
the amount of CPUs, but it may diverge in environments such as VMs or
containers.

#### `-v`, `--version`#

Added in: v0.1.3

Print node's version.

#### `--watch`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0, v20.13.0 | Watch mode is now stable.  
v19.2.0, v18.13.0 | Test runner now supports running in watch mode.  
v18.11.0, v16.19.0 | Added in: v18.11.0, v16.19.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

Starts Node.js in watch mode. When in watch mode, changes in the watched files
cause the Node.js process to restart. By default, watch mode will watch the
entry point and any required or imported module. Use `--watch-path` to specify
what paths to watch.

This flag cannot be combined with `--check`, `--eval`, `--interactive`, or the
REPL.

    
    
    node --watch index.js copy

#### `--watch-path`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0, v20.13.0 | Watch mode is now stable.  
v18.11.0, v16.19.0 | Added in: v18.11.0, v16.19.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

Starts Node.js in watch mode and specifies what paths to watch. When in watch
mode, changes in the watched paths cause the Node.js process to restart. This
will turn off watching of required or imported modules, even when used in
combination with `--watch`.

This flag cannot be combined with `--check`, `--eval`, `--interactive`,
`--test`, or the REPL.

    
    
    node --watch-path=./src --watch-path=./tests index.js copy

This option is only supported on macOS and Windows. An
`ERR_FEATURE_UNAVAILABLE_ON_PLATFORM` exception will be thrown when the option
is used on a platform that does not support it.

#### `--watch-preserve-output`#

Added in: v19.3.0, v18.13.0

Disable the clearing of the console when watch mode restarts the process.

    
    
    node --watch --watch-preserve-output test.js copy

#### `--zero-fill-buffers`#

Added in: v6.0.0

Automatically zero-fills all newly allocated `Buffer` and `SlowBuffer`
instances.

### Environment variables#

#### `FORCE_COLOR=[1, 2, 3]`#

The `FORCE_COLOR` environment variable is used to enable ANSI colorized
output. The value may be:

  * `1`, `true`, or the empty string `''` indicate 16-color support,
  * `2` to indicate 256-color support, or
  * `3` to indicate 16 million-color support.

When `FORCE_COLOR` is used and set to a supported value, both the `NO_COLOR`,
and `NODE_DISABLE_COLORS` environment variables are ignored.

Any other value will result in colorized output being disabled.

#### `NODE_COMPILE_CACHE=dir`#

Added in: v22.1.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active Development

Enable the module compile cache for the Node.js instance. See the
documentation of module compile cache for details.

#### `NODE_DEBUG=module[,…]`#

Added in: v0.1.32

`','`-separated list of core modules that should print debug information.

#### `NODE_DEBUG_NATIVE=module[,…]`#

`','`-separated list of core C++ modules that should print debug information.

#### `NODE_DISABLE_COLORS=1`#

Added in: v0.3.0

When set, colors will not be used in the REPL.

#### `NODE_DISABLE_COMPILE_CACHE=1`#

Added in: v22.8.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active Development

Disable the module compile cache for the Node.js instance. See the
documentation of module compile cache for details.

#### `NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS=file`#

Added in: v7.3.0

When set, the well known "root" CAs (like VeriSign) will be extended with the
extra certificates in `file`. The file should consist of one or more trusted
certificates in PEM format. A message will be emitted (once) with
`process.emitWarning()` if the file is missing or malformed, but any errors
are otherwise ignored.

Neither the well known nor extra certificates are used when the `ca` options
property is explicitly specified for a TLS or HTTPS client or server.

This environment variable is ignored when `node` runs as setuid root or has
Linux file capabilities set.

The `NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS` environment variable is only read when the Node.js
process is first launched. Changing the value at runtime using
`process.env.NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS` has no effect on the current process.

#### `NODE_ICU_DATA=file`#

Added in: v0.11.15

Data path for ICU (`Intl` object) data. Will extend linked-in data when
compiled with small-icu support.

#### `NODE_NO_WARNINGS=1`#

Added in: v6.11.0

When set to `1`, process warnings are silenced.

#### `NODE_OPTIONS=options...`#

Added in: v8.0.0

A space-separated list of command-line options. `options...` are interpreted
before command-line options, so command-line options will override or compound
after anything in `options...`. Node.js will exit with an error if an option
that is not allowed in the environment is used, such as `-p` or a script file.

If an option value contains a space, it can be escaped using double quotes:

    
    
    NODE_OPTIONS='--require "./my path/file.js"' copy

A singleton flag passed as a command-line option will override the same flag
passed into `NODE_OPTIONS`:

    
    
    # The inspector will be available on port 5555
    NODE_OPTIONS='--inspect=localhost:4444' node --inspect=localhost:5555 copy

A flag that can be passed multiple times will be treated as if its
`NODE_OPTIONS` instances were passed first, and then its command-line
instances afterwards:

    
    
    NODE_OPTIONS='--require "./a.js"' node --require "./b.js"
    # is equivalent to:
    node --require "./a.js" --require "./b.js" copy

Node.js options that are allowed are in the following list. If an option
supports both --XX and --no-XX variants, they are both supported but only one
is included in the list below.

  * `--allow-addons`
  * `--allow-child-process`
  * `--allow-fs-read`
  * `--allow-fs-write`
  * `--allow-wasi`
  * `--allow-worker`
  * `--conditions`, `-C`
  * `--cpu-prof-dir`
  * `--cpu-prof-interval`
  * `--cpu-prof-name`
  * `--cpu-prof`
  * `--diagnostic-dir`
  * `--disable-proto`
  * `--disable-sigusr1`
  * `--disable-warning`
  * `--disable-wasm-trap-handler`
  * `--dns-result-order`
  * `--enable-fips`
  * `--enable-network-family-autoselection`
  * `--enable-source-maps`
  * `--entry-url`
  * `--experimental-abortcontroller`
  * `--experimental-addon-modules`
  * `--experimental-async-context-frame`
  * `--experimental-detect-module`
  * `--experimental-eventsource`
  * `--experimental-import-meta-resolve`
  * `--experimental-json-modules`
  * `--experimental-loader`
  * `--experimental-modules`
  * `--experimental-permission`
  * `--experimental-print-required-tla`
  * `--experimental-require-module`
  * `--experimental-shadow-realm`
  * `--experimental-specifier-resolution`
  * `--experimental-test-isolation`
  * `--experimental-top-level-await`
  * `--experimental-transform-types`
  * `--experimental-vm-modules`
  * `--experimental-wasi-unstable-preview1`
  * `--experimental-wasm-modules`
  * `--experimental-webstorage`
  * `--force-context-aware`
  * `--force-fips`
  * `--force-node-api-uncaught-exceptions-policy`
  * `--frozen-intrinsics`
  * `--heap-prof-dir`
  * `--heap-prof-interval`
  * `--heap-prof-name`
  * `--heap-prof`
  * `--heapsnapshot-near-heap-limit`
  * `--heapsnapshot-signal`
  * `--http-parser`
  * `--icu-data-dir`
  * `--import`
  * `--input-type`
  * `--insecure-http-parser`
  * `--inspect-brk`
  * `--inspect-port`, `--debug-port`
  * `--inspect-publish-uid`
  * `--inspect-wait`
  * `--inspect`
  * `--localstorage-file`
  * `--max-http-header-size`
  * `--napi-modules`
  * `--network-family-autoselection-attempt-timeout`
  * `--no-addons`
  * `--no-deprecation`
  * `--no-experimental-global-navigator`
  * `--no-experimental-repl-await`
  * `--no-experimental-sqlite`
  * `--no-experimental-strip-types`
  * `--no-experimental-websocket`
  * `--no-extra-info-on-fatal-exception`
  * `--no-force-async-hooks-checks`
  * `--no-global-search-paths`
  * `--no-network-family-autoselection`
  * `--no-warnings`
  * `--node-memory-debug`
  * `--openssl-config`
  * `--openssl-legacy-provider`
  * `--openssl-shared-config`
  * `--pending-deprecation`
  * `--permission`
  * `--preserve-symlinks-main`
  * `--preserve-symlinks`
  * `--prof-process`
  * `--redirect-warnings`
  * `--report-compact`
  * `--report-dir`, `--report-directory`
  * `--report-exclude-env`
  * `--report-exclude-network`
  * `--report-filename`
  * `--report-on-fatalerror`
  * `--report-on-signal`
  * `--report-signal`
  * `--report-uncaught-exception`
  * `--require`, `-r`
  * `--secure-heap-min`
  * `--secure-heap`
  * `--snapshot-blob`
  * `--test-coverage-branches`
  * `--test-coverage-exclude`
  * `--test-coverage-functions`
  * `--test-coverage-include`
  * `--test-coverage-lines`
  * `--test-isolation`
  * `--test-name-pattern`
  * `--test-only`
  * `--test-reporter-destination`
  * `--test-reporter`
  * `--test-shard`
  * `--test-skip-pattern`
  * `--throw-deprecation`
  * `--title`
  * `--tls-cipher-list`
  * `--tls-keylog`
  * `--tls-max-v1.2`
  * `--tls-max-v1.3`
  * `--tls-min-v1.0`
  * `--tls-min-v1.1`
  * `--tls-min-v1.2`
  * `--tls-min-v1.3`
  * `--trace-deprecation`
  * `--trace-env-js-stack`
  * `--trace-env-native-stack`
  * `--trace-env`
  * `--trace-event-categories`
  * `--trace-event-file-pattern`
  * `--trace-events-enabled`
  * `--trace-exit`
  * `--trace-require-module`
  * `--trace-sigint`
  * `--trace-sync-io`
  * `--trace-tls`
  * `--trace-uncaught`
  * `--trace-warnings`
  * `--track-heap-objects`
  * `--unhandled-rejections`
  * `--use-bundled-ca`
  * `--use-largepages`
  * `--use-openssl-ca`
  * `--use-system-ca`
  * `--v8-pool-size`
  * `--watch-path`
  * `--watch-preserve-output`
  * `--watch`
  * `--zero-fill-buffers`

V8 options that are allowed are:

  * `--abort-on-uncaught-exception`
  * `--disallow-code-generation-from-strings`
  * `--enable-etw-stack-walking`
  * `--expose-gc`
  * `--interpreted-frames-native-stack`
  * `--jitless`
  * `--max-old-space-size`
  * `--max-semi-space-size`
  * `--perf-basic-prof-only-functions`
  * `--perf-basic-prof`
  * `--perf-prof-unwinding-info`
  * `--perf-prof`
  * `--stack-trace-limit`

`--perf-basic-prof-only-functions`, `--perf-basic-prof`, `--perf-prof-
unwinding-info`, and `--perf-prof` are only available on Linux.

`--enable-etw-stack-walking` is only available on Windows.

#### `NODE_PATH=path[:…]`#

Added in: v0.1.32

`':'`-separated list of directories prefixed to the module search path.

On Windows, this is a `';'`-separated list instead.

#### `NODE_PENDING_DEPRECATION=1`#

Added in: v8.0.0

When set to `1`, emit pending deprecation warnings.

Pending deprecations are generally identical to a runtime deprecation with the
notable exception that they are turned _off_ by default and will not be
emitted unless either the `--pending-deprecation` command-line flag, or the
`NODE_PENDING_DEPRECATION=1` environment variable, is set. Pending
deprecations are used to provide a kind of selective "early warning" mechanism
that developers may leverage to detect deprecated API usage.

#### `NODE_PENDING_PIPE_INSTANCES=instances`#

Set the number of pending pipe instance handles when the pipe server is
waiting for connections. This setting applies to Windows only.

#### `NODE_PRESERVE_SYMLINKS=1`#

Added in: v7.1.0

When set to `1`, instructs the module loader to preserve symbolic links when
resolving and caching modules.

#### `NODE_REDIRECT_WARNINGS=file`#

Added in: v8.0.0

When set, process warnings will be emitted to the given file instead of
printing to stderr. The file will be created if it does not exist, and will be
appended to if it does. If an error occurs while attempting to write the
warning to the file, the warning will be written to stderr instead. This is
equivalent to using the `--redirect-warnings=file` command-line flag.

#### `NODE_REPL_EXTERNAL_MODULE=file`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.3.0, v20.16.0 | Remove the possibility to use this env var with kDisableNodeOptionsEnv for embedders.  
v13.0.0, v12.16.0 | Added in: v13.0.0, v12.16.0  
  
Path to a Node.js module which will be loaded in place of the built-in REPL.
Overriding this value to an empty string (`''`) will use the built-in REPL.

#### `NODE_REPL_HISTORY=file`#

Added in: v3.0.0

Path to the file used to store the persistent REPL history. The default path
is `~/.node_repl_history`, which is overridden by this variable. Setting the
value to an empty string (`''` or `' '`) disables persistent REPL history.

#### `NODE_SKIP_PLATFORM_CHECK=value`#

Added in: v14.5.0

If `value` equals `'1'`, the check for a supported platform is skipped during
Node.js startup. Node.js might not execute correctly. Any issues encountered
on unsupported platforms will not be fixed.

#### `NODE_TEST_CONTEXT=value`#

If `value` equals `'child'`, test reporter options will be overridden and test
output will be sent to stdout in the TAP format. If any other value is
provided, Node.js makes no guarantees about the reporter format used or its
stability.

#### `NODE_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED=value`#

If `value` equals `'0'`, certificate validation is disabled for TLS
connections. This makes TLS, and HTTPS by extension, insecure. The use of this
environment variable is strongly discouraged.

#### `NODE_V8_COVERAGE=dir`#

When set, Node.js will begin outputting [V8 JavaScript code
coverage](https://v8project.blogspot.com/2017/12/javascript-code-
coverage.html) and [Source Map](https://sourcemaps.info/spec.html) data to the
directory provided as an argument (coverage information is written as JSON to
files with a `coverage` prefix).

`NODE_V8_COVERAGE` will automatically propagate to subprocesses, making it
easier to instrument applications that call the `child_process.spawn()` family
of functions. `NODE_V8_COVERAGE` can be set to an empty string, to prevent
propagation.

##### Coverage output#

Coverage is output as an array of
[ScriptCoverage](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-
protocol/tot/Profiler#type-ScriptCoverage) objects on the top-level key
`result`:

    
    
    {
      "result": [
        {
          "scriptId": "67",
          "url": "internal/tty.js",
          "functions": []
        }
      ]
    } copy

##### Source map cache#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

If found, source map data is appended to the top-level key `source-map-cache`
on the JSON coverage object.

`source-map-cache` is an object with keys representing the files source maps
were extracted from, and values which include the raw source-map URL (in the
key `url`), the parsed Source Map v3 information (in the key `data`), and the
line lengths of the source file (in the key `lineLengths`).

    
    
    {
      "result": [
        {
          "scriptId": "68",
          "url": "file:///absolute/path/to/source.js",
          "functions": []
        }
      ],
      "source-map-cache": {
        "file:///absolute/path/to/source.js": {
          "url": "./path-to-map.json",
          "data": {
            "version": 3,
            "sources": [
              "file:///absolute/path/to/original.js"
            ],
            "names": [
              "Foo",
              "console",
              "info"
            ],
            "mappings": "MAAMA,IACJC,YAAaC",
            "sourceRoot": "./"
          },
          "lineLengths": [
            13,
            62,
            38,
            27
          ]
        }
      }
    } copy

#### `NO_COLOR=<any>`#

[`NO_COLOR`](https://no-color.org) is an alias for `NODE_DISABLE_COLORS`. The
value of the environment variable is arbitrary.

#### `OPENSSL_CONF=file`#

Added in: v6.11.0

Load an OpenSSL configuration file on startup. Among other uses, this can be
used to enable FIPS-compliant crypto if Node.js is built with `./configure
--openssl-fips`.

If the `--openssl-config` command-line option is used, the environment
variable is ignored.

#### `SSL_CERT_DIR=dir`#

Added in: v7.7.0

If `--use-openssl-ca` is enabled, or if `--use-system-ca` is enabled on
platforms other than macOS and Windows, this overrides and sets OpenSSL's
directory containing trusted certificates.

Be aware that unless the child environment is explicitly set, this environment
variable will be inherited by any child processes, and if they use OpenSSL, it
may cause them to trust the same CAs as node.

#### `SSL_CERT_FILE=file`#

Added in: v7.7.0

If `--use-openssl-ca` is enabled, or if `--use-system-ca` is enabled on
platforms other than macOS and Windows, this overrides and sets OpenSSL's file
containing trusted certificates.

Be aware that unless the child environment is explicitly set, this environment
variable will be inherited by any child processes, and if they use OpenSSL, it
may cause them to trust the same CAs as node.

#### `TZ`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.2.0 | Changing the TZ variable using process.env.TZ = changes the timezone on Windows as well.  
v13.0.0 | Changing the TZ variable using process.env.TZ = changes the timezone on POSIX systems.  
v0.0.1 | Added in: v0.0.1  
  
The `TZ` environment variable is used to specify the timezone configuration.

While Node.js does not support all of the various [ways that `TZ` is handled
in other environments](https://www.gnu.org/software/libc/manual/html_node/TZ-
Variable.html), it does support basic [timezone
IDs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) (such as
`'Etc/UTC'`, `'Europe/Paris'`, or `'America/New_York'`). It may support a few
other abbreviations or aliases, but these are strongly discouraged and not
guaranteed.

    
    
    $ TZ=Europe/Dublin node -pe "new Date().toString()"
    Wed May 12 2021 20:30:48 GMT+0100 (Irish Standard Time) copy

#### `UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE=size`#

Set the number of threads used in libuv's threadpool to `size` threads.

Asynchronous system APIs are used by Node.js whenever possible, but where they
do not exist, libuv's threadpool is used to create asynchronous node APIs
based on synchronous system APIs. Node.js APIs that use the threadpool are:

  * all `fs` APIs, other than the file watcher APIs and those that are explicitly synchronous
  * asynchronous crypto APIs such as `crypto.pbkdf2()`, `crypto.scrypt()`, `crypto.randomBytes()`, `crypto.randomFill()`, `crypto.generateKeyPair()`
  * `dns.lookup()`
  * all `zlib` APIs, other than those that are explicitly synchronous

Because libuv's threadpool has a fixed size, it means that if for whatever
reason any of these APIs takes a long time, other (seemingly unrelated) APIs
that run in libuv's threadpool will experience degraded performance. In order
to mitigate this issue, one potential solution is to increase the size of
libuv's threadpool by setting the `'UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE'` environment variable
to a value greater than `4` (its current default value). However, setting this
from inside the process using `process.env.UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE=size` is not
guranteed to work as the threadpool would have been created as part of the
runtime initialisation much before user code is run. For more information, see
the [libuv threadpool
documentation](https://docs.libuv.org/en/latest/threadpool.html).

### Useful V8 options#

V8 has its own set of CLI options. Any V8 CLI option that is provided to
`node` will be passed on to V8 to handle. V8's options have _no stability
guarantee_. The V8 team themselves don't consider them to be part of their
formal API, and reserve the right to change them at any time. Likewise, they
are not covered by the Node.js stability guarantees. Many of the V8 options
are of interest only to V8 developers. Despite this, there is a small set of
V8 options that are widely applicable to Node.js, and they are documented
here:

#### `--abort-on-uncaught-exception`#

#### `--disallow-code-generation-from-strings`#

#### `--enable-etw-stack-walking`#

#### `--expose-gc`#

#### `--harmony-shadow-realm`#

#### `--interpreted-frames-native-stack`#

#### `--jitless`#

#### `--max-old-space-size=SIZE` (in MiB)#

Sets the max memory size of V8's old memory section. As memory consumption
approaches the limit, V8 will spend more time on garbage collection in an
effort to free unused memory.

On a machine with 2 GiB of memory, consider setting this to 1536 (1.5 GiB) to
leave some memory for other uses and avoid swapping.

    
    
    node --max-old-space-size=1536 index.js copy

#### `--max-semi-space-size=SIZE` (in MiB)#

Sets the maximum [semi-
space](https://www.memorymanagement.org/glossary/s.html#semi.space) size for
V8's [scavenge garbage collector](https://v8.dev/blog/orinoco-parallel-
scavenger) in MiB (mebibytes). Increasing the max size of a semi-space may
improve throughput for Node.js at the cost of more memory consumption.

Since the young generation size of the V8 heap is three times (see
[`YoungGenerationSizeFromSemiSpaceSize`](https://chromium.googlesource.com/v8/v8.git/+/refs/tags/10.3.129/src/heap/heap.cc#328)
in V8) the size of the semi-space, an increase of 1 MiB to semi-space applies
to each of the three individual semi-spaces and causes the heap size to
increase by 3 MiB. The throughput improvement depends on your workload (see
[#42511](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/42511)).

The default value depends on the memory limit. For example, on 64-bit systems
with a memory limit of 512 MiB, the max size of a semi-space defaults to 1
MiB. For memory limits up to and including 2GiB, the default max size of a
semi-space will be less than 16 MiB on 64-bit systems.

To get the best configuration for your application, you should try different
max-semi-space-size values when running benchmarks for your application.

For example, benchmark on a 64-bit systems:

    
    
    for MiB in 16 32 64 128; do
        node --max-semi-space-size=$MiB index.js
    done copy

#### `--perf-basic-prof`#

#### `--perf-basic-prof-only-functions`#

#### `--perf-prof`#

#### `--perf-prof-unwinding-info`#

#### `--prof`#

#### `--security-revert`#

#### `--stack-trace-limit=limit`#

The maximum number of stack frames to collect in an error's stack trace.
Setting it to 0 disables stack trace collection. The default value is 10.

    
    
    node --stack-trace-limit=12 -p -e "Error.stackTraceLimit" # prints 12 copy

## Console#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/console.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/console.js)

The `node:console` module provides a simple debugging console that is similar
to the JavaScript console mechanism provided by web browsers.

The module exports two specific components:

  * A `Console` class with methods such as `console.log()`, `console.error()`, and `console.warn()` that can be used to write to any Node.js stream.
  * A global `console` instance configured to write to `process.stdout` and `process.stderr`. The global `console` can be used without calling `require('node:console')`.

_**Warning**_ : The global console object's methods are neither consistently
synchronous like the browser APIs they resemble, nor are they consistently
asynchronous like all other Node.js streams. Programs that desire to depend on
the synchronous / asynchronous behavior of the console functions should first
figure out the nature of console's backing stream. This is because the stream
is dependent on the underlying platform and standard stream configuration of
the current process. See the note on process I/O for more information.

Example using the global `console`:

    
    
    console.log('hello world');
    // Prints: hello world, to stdout
    console.log('hello %s', 'world');
    // Prints: hello world, to stdout
    console.error(new Error('Whoops, something bad happened'));
    // Prints error message and stack trace to stderr:
    //   Error: Whoops, something bad happened
    //     at [eval]:5:15
    //     at Script.runInThisContext (node:vm:132:18)
    //     at Object.runInThisContext (node:vm:309:38)
    //     at node:internal/process/execution:77:19
    //     at [eval]-wrapper:6:22
    //     at evalScript (node:internal/process/execution:76:60)
    //     at node:internal/main/eval_string:23:3
    
    const name = 'Will Robinson';
    console.warn(`Danger ${name}! Danger!`);
    // Prints: Danger Will Robinson! Danger!, to stderr copy

Example using the `Console` class:

    
    
    const out = getStreamSomehow();
    const err = getStreamSomehow();
    const myConsole = new console.Console(out, err);
    
    myConsole.log('hello world');
    // Prints: hello world, to out
    myConsole.log('hello %s', 'world');
    // Prints: hello world, to out
    myConsole.error(new Error('Whoops, something bad happened'));
    // Prints: [Error: Whoops, something bad happened], to err
    
    const name = 'Will Robinson';
    myConsole.warn(`Danger ${name}! Danger!`);
    // Prints: Danger Will Robinson! Danger!, to err copy

### Class: `Console`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | Errors that occur while writing to the underlying streams will now be ignored by default.  
  
The `Console` class can be used to create a simple logger with configurable
output streams and can be accessed using either
`require('node:console').Console` or `console.Console` (or their destructured
counterparts):

    
    
    import { Console } from 'node:console';const { Console } = require('node:console');copy
    
    
    const { Console } = console; copy

#### `new Console(stdout[, stderr][, ignoreErrors])`#

#### `new Console(options)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.2.0, v12.17.0 | The `groupIndentation` option was introduced.  
v11.7.0 | The `inspectOptions` option is introduced.  
v10.0.0 | The `Console` constructor now supports an `options` argument, and the `colorMode` option was introduced.  
v8.0.0 | The `ignoreErrors` option was introduced.  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `stdout` <stream.Writable>
    * `stderr` <stream.Writable>
    * `ignoreErrors` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Ignore errors when writing to the underlying streams. **Default:** `true`.
    * `colorMode` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Set color support for this `Console` instance. Setting to `true` enables coloring while inspecting values. Setting to `false` disables coloring while inspecting values. Setting to `'auto'` makes color support depend on the value of the `isTTY` property and the value returned by `getColorDepth()` on the respective stream. This option can not be used, if `inspectOptions.colors` is set as well. **Default:** `'auto'`.
    * `inspectOptions` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Specifies options that are passed along to `util.inspect()`.
    * `groupIndentation` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Set group indentation. **Default:** `2`.

Creates a new `Console` with one or two writable stream instances. `stdout` is
a writable stream to print log or info output. `stderr` is used for warning or
error output. If `stderr` is not provided, `stdout` is used for `stderr`.

    
    
    import { createWriteStream } from 'node:fs';
    import { Console } from 'node:console';
    // Alternatively
    // const { Console } = console;
    
    const output = createWriteStream('./stdout.log');
    const errorOutput = createWriteStream('./stderr.log');
    // Custom simple logger
    const logger = new Console({ stdout: output, stderr: errorOutput });
    // use it like console
    const count = 5;
    logger.log('count: %d', count);
    // In stdout.log: count 5const fs = require('node:fs');
    const { Console } = require('node:console');
    // Alternatively
    // const { Console } = console;
    
    const output = fs.createWriteStream('./stdout.log');
    const errorOutput = fs.createWriteStream('./stderr.log');
    // Custom simple logger
    const logger = new Console({ stdout: output, stderr: errorOutput });
    // use it like console
    const count = 5;
    logger.log('count: %d', count);
    // In stdout.log: count 5copy

The global `console` is a special `Console` whose output is sent to
`process.stdout` and `process.stderr`. It is equivalent to calling:

    
    
    new Console({ stdout: process.stdout, stderr: process.stderr }); copy

#### `console.assert(value[, ...message])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | The implementation is now spec compliant and does not throw anymore.  
v0.1.101 | Added in: v0.1.101  
  
  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The value tested for being truthy.
  * `...message` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) All arguments besides `value` are used as error message.

`console.assert()` writes a message if `value` is
[falsy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Falsy) or omitted.
It only writes a message and does not otherwise affect execution. The output
always starts with `"Assertion failed"`. If provided, `message` is formatted
using `util.format()`.

If `value` is [truthy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Glossary/Truthy), nothing happens.

    
    
    console.assert(true, 'does nothing');
    
    console.assert(false, 'Whoops %s work', 'didn\'t');
    // Assertion failed: Whoops didn't work
    
    console.assert();
    // Assertion failed copy

#### `console.clear()`#

Added in: v8.3.0

When `stdout` is a TTY, calling `console.clear()` will attempt to clear the
TTY. When `stdout` is not a TTY, this method does nothing.

The specific operation of `console.clear()` can vary across operating systems
and terminal types. For most Linux operating systems, `console.clear()`
operates similarly to the `clear` shell command. On Windows, `console.clear()`
will clear only the output in the current terminal viewport for the Node.js
binary.

#### `console.count([label])`#

Added in: v8.3.0

  * `label` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The display label for the counter. **Default:** `'default'`.

Maintains an internal counter specific to `label` and outputs to `stdout` the
number of times `console.count()` has been called with the given `label`.

    
    
    > console.count()
    default: 1
    undefined
    > console.count('default')
    default: 2
    undefined
    > console.count('abc')
    abc: 1
    undefined
    > console.count('xyz')
    xyz: 1
    undefined
    > console.count('abc')
    abc: 2
    undefined
    > console.count()
    default: 3
    undefined
    > copy

#### `console.countReset([label])`#

Added in: v8.3.0

  * `label` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The display label for the counter. **Default:** `'default'`.

Resets the internal counter specific to `label`.

    
    
    > console.count('abc');
    abc: 1
    undefined
    > console.countReset('abc');
    undefined
    > console.count('abc');
    abc: 1
    undefined
    > copy

#### `console.debug(data[, ...args])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.10.0 | `console.debug` is now an alias for `console.log`.  
v8.0.0 | Added in: v8.0.0  
  
  * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

The `console.debug()` function is an alias for `console.log()`.

#### `console.dir(obj[, options])`#

Added in: v0.1.101

  * `obj` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `showHidden` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true` then the object's non-enumerable and symbol properties will be shown too. **Default:** `false`.
    * `depth` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Tells `util.inspect()` how many times to recurse while formatting the object. This is useful for inspecting large complicated objects. To make it recurse indefinitely, pass `null`. **Default:** `2`.
    * `colors` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, then the output will be styled with ANSI color codes. Colors are customizable; see customizing `util.inspect()` colors. **Default:** `false`.

Uses `util.inspect()` on `obj` and prints the resulting string to `stdout`.
This function bypasses any custom `inspect()` function defined on `obj`.

#### `console.dirxml(...data)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.3.0 | `console.dirxml` now calls `console.log` for its arguments.  
v8.0.0 | Added in: v8.0.0  
  
  * `...data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

This method calls `console.log()` passing it the arguments received. This
method does not produce any XML formatting.

#### `console.error([data][, ...args])`#

Added in: v0.1.100

  * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Prints to `stderr` with newline. Multiple arguments can be passed, with the
first used as the primary message and all additional used as substitution
values similar to [`printf(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man3/printf.3.html) (the arguments are all passed to `util.format()`).

    
    
    const code = 5;
    console.error('error #%d', code);
    // Prints: error #5, to stderr
    console.error('error', code);
    // Prints: error 5, to stderr copy

If formatting elements (e.g. `%d`) are not found in the first string then
`util.inspect()` is called on each argument and the resulting string values
are concatenated. See `util.format()` for more information.

#### `console.group([...label])`#

Added in: v8.5.0

  * `...label` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Increases indentation of subsequent lines by spaces for `groupIndentation`
length.

If one or more `label`s are provided, those are printed first without the
additional indentation.

#### `console.groupCollapsed()`#

Added in: v8.5.0

An alias for `console.group()`.

#### `console.groupEnd()`#

Added in: v8.5.0

Decreases indentation of subsequent lines by spaces for `groupIndentation`
length.

#### `console.info([data][, ...args])`#

Added in: v0.1.100

  * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

The `console.info()` function is an alias for `console.log()`.

#### `console.log([data][, ...args])`#

Added in: v0.1.100

  * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Prints to `stdout` with newline. Multiple arguments can be passed, with the
first used as the primary message and all additional used as substitution
values similar to [`printf(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man3/printf.3.html) (the arguments are all passed to `util.format()`).

    
    
    const count = 5;
    console.log('count: %d', count);
    // Prints: count: 5, to stdout
    console.log('count:', count);
    // Prints: count: 5, to stdout copy

See `util.format()` for more information.

#### `console.table(tabularData[, properties])`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `tabularData` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `properties` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Alternate properties for constructing the table.

Try to construct a table with the columns of the properties of `tabularData`
(or use `properties`) and rows of `tabularData` and log it. Falls back to just
logging the argument if it can't be parsed as tabular.

    
    
    // These can't be parsed as tabular data
    console.table(Symbol());
    // Symbol()
    
    console.table(undefined);
    // undefined
    
    console.table([{ a: 1, b: 'Y' }, { a: 'Z', b: 2 }]);
    // ┌─────────┬─────┬─────┐
    // │ (index) │ a   │ b   │
    // ├─────────┼─────┼─────┤
    // │ 0       │ 1   │ 'Y' │
    // │ 1       │ 'Z' │ 2   │
    // └─────────┴─────┴─────┘
    
    console.table([{ a: 1, b: 'Y' }, { a: 'Z', b: 2 }], ['a']);
    // ┌─────────┬─────┐
    // │ (index) │ a   │
    // ├─────────┼─────┤
    // │ 0       │ 1   │
    // │ 1       │ 'Z' │
    // └─────────┴─────┘ copy

#### `console.time([label])`#

Added in: v0.1.104

  * `label` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'default'`

Starts a timer that can be used to compute the duration of an operation.
Timers are identified by a unique `label`. Use the same `label` when calling
`console.timeEnd()` to stop the timer and output the elapsed time in suitable
time units to `stdout`. For example, if the elapsed time is 3869ms,
`console.timeEnd()` displays "3.869s".

#### `console.timeEnd([label])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.0.0 | The elapsed time is displayed with a suitable time unit.  
v6.0.0 | This method no longer supports multiple calls that don't map to individual `console.time()` calls; see below for details.  
v0.1.104 | Added in: v0.1.104  
  
  * `label` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'default'`

Stops a timer that was previously started by calling `console.time()` and
prints the result to `stdout`:

    
    
    console.time('bunch-of-stuff');
    // Do a bunch of stuff.
    console.timeEnd('bunch-of-stuff');
    // Prints: bunch-of-stuff: 225.438ms copy

#### `console.timeLog([label][, ...data])`#

Added in: v10.7.0

  * `label` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'default'`
  * `...data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

For a timer that was previously started by calling `console.time()`, prints
the elapsed time and other `data` arguments to `stdout`:

    
    
    console.time('process');
    const value = expensiveProcess1(); // Returns 42
    console.timeLog('process', value);
    // Prints "process: 365.227ms 42".
    doExpensiveProcess2(value);
    console.timeEnd('process'); copy

#### `console.trace([message][, ...args])`#

Added in: v0.1.104

  * `message` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Prints to `stderr` the string `'Trace: '`, followed by the `util.format()`
formatted message and stack trace to the current position in the code.

    
    
    console.trace('Show me');
    // Prints: (stack trace will vary based on where trace is called)
    //  Trace: Show me
    //    at repl:2:9
    //    at REPLServer.defaultEval (repl.js:248:27)
    //    at bound (domain.js:287:14)
    //    at REPLServer.runBound [as eval] (domain.js:300:12)
    //    at REPLServer.<anonymous> (repl.js:412:12)
    //    at emitOne (events.js:82:20)
    //    at REPLServer.emit (events.js:169:7)
    //    at REPLServer.Interface._onLine (readline.js:210:10)
    //    at REPLServer.Interface._line (readline.js:549:8)
    //    at REPLServer.Interface._ttyWrite (readline.js:826:14) copy

#### `console.warn([data][, ...args])`#

Added in: v0.1.100

  * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

The `console.warn()` function is an alias for `console.error()`.

### Inspector only methods#

The following methods are exposed by the V8 engine in the general API but do
not display anything unless used in conjunction with the
[inspector](debugger.html) (`--inspect` flag).

#### `console.profile([label])`#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * `label` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

This method does not display anything unless used in the inspector. The
`console.profile()` method starts a JavaScript CPU profile with an optional
label until `console.profileEnd()` is called. The profile is then added to the
**Profile** panel of the inspector.

    
    
    console.profile('MyLabel');
    // Some code
    console.profileEnd('MyLabel');
    // Adds the profile 'MyLabel' to the Profiles panel of the inspector. copy

#### `console.profileEnd([label])`#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * `label` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

This method does not display anything unless used in the inspector. Stops the
current JavaScript CPU profiling session if one has been started and prints
the report to the **Profiles** panel of the inspector. See `console.profile()`
for an example.

If this method is called without a label, the most recently started profile is
stopped.

#### `console.timeStamp([label])`#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * `label` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

This method does not display anything unless used in the inspector. The
`console.timeStamp()` method adds an event with the label `'label'` to the
**Timeline** panel of the inspector.

## Corepack#

Added in: v16.9.0, v14.19.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

_[Corepack](https://github.com/nodejs/corepack)_ is an experimental tool to
help with managing versions of your package managers. It exposes binary
proxies for each supported package manager that, when called, will identify
whatever package manager is configured for the current project, download it if
needed, and finally run it.

Despite Corepack being distributed with default installs of Node.js, the
package managers managed by Corepack are not part of the Node.js distribution
and:

  * Upon first use, Corepack downloads the latest version from the network.
  * Any required updates (related to security vulnerabilities or otherwise) are out of scope of the Node.js project. If necessary end users must figure out how to update on their own.

This feature simplifies two core workflows:

  * It eases new contributor onboarding, since they won't have to follow system-specific installation processes anymore just to have the package manager you want them to.

  * It allows you to ensure that everyone in your team will use exactly the package manager version you intend them to, without them having to manually synchronize it each time you need to make an update.

### Workflows#

#### Enabling the feature#

Due to its experimental status, Corepack currently needs to be explicitly
enabled to have any effect. To do that, run [`corepack
enable`](https://github.com/nodejs/corepack#corepack-enable--name), which will
set up the symlinks in your environment next to the `node` binary (and
overwrite the existing symlinks if necessary).

From this point forward, any call to the supported binaries will work without
further setup. Should you experience a problem, run [`corepack
disable`](https://github.com/nodejs/corepack#corepack-disable--name) to remove
the proxies from your system (and consider opening an issue on the [Corepack
repository](https://github.com/nodejs/corepack) to let us know).

#### Configuring a package#

The Corepack proxies will find the closest `package.json` file in your current
directory hierarchy to extract its `"packageManager"` property.

If the value corresponds to a supported package manager, Corepack will make
sure that all calls to the relevant binaries are run against the requested
version, downloading it on demand if needed, and aborting if it cannot be
successfully retrieved.

You can use [`corepack use`](https://github.com/nodejs/corepack#corepack-use-
nameversion) to ask Corepack to update your local `package.json` to use the
package manager of your choice:

    
    
    corepack use [[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection) # sets the latest 7.x version in the package.json
    corepack use yarn@* # sets the latest version in the package.json copy

#### Upgrading the global versions#

When running outside of an existing project (for example when running `yarn
init`), Corepack will by default use predefined versions roughly corresponding
to the latest stable releases from each tool. Those versions can be overridden
by running the [`corepack
install`](https://github.com/nodejs/corepack#corepack-install--g--global---all
--nameversion) command along with the package manager version you wish to set:

    
    
    corepack install --global [[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection) copy

Alternately, a tag or range may be used:

    
    
    corepack install --global pnpm@*
    corepack install --global yarn@stable copy

#### Offline workflow#

Many production environments don't have network access. Since Corepack usually
downloads the package manager releases straight from their registries, it can
conflict with such environments. To avoid that happening, call the [`corepack
pack`](https://github.com/nodejs/corepack#corepack-pack---all--nameversion)
command while you still have network access (typically at the same time you're
preparing your deploy image). This will ensure that the required package
managers are available even without network access.

The `pack` command has [various
flags](https://github.com/nodejs/corepack#utility-commands). Consult the
detailed [Corepack documentation](https://github.com/nodejs/corepack#readme)
for more information.

### Supported package managers#

The following binaries are provided through Corepack:

Package manager| Binary names  
---|---  
[Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com)| `yarn`, `yarnpkg`  
[pnpm](https://pnpm.io)| `pnpm`, `pnpx`  
  
### Common questions#

#### How does Corepack interact with npm?#

While Corepack could support npm like any other package manager, its shims
aren't enabled by default. This has a few consequences:

  * It's always possible to run a `npm` command within a project configured to be used with another package manager, since Corepack cannot intercept it.

  * While `npm` is a valid option in the `"packageManager"` property, the lack of shim will cause the global npm to be used.

#### Running `npm install -g yarn` doesn't work#

npm prevents accidentally overriding the Corepack binaries when doing a global
install. To avoid this problem, consider one of the following options:

  * Don't run this command; Corepack will provide the package manager binaries anyway and will ensure that the requested versions are always available, so installing the package managers explicitly isn't needed.

  * Add the `--force` flag to `npm install`; this will tell npm that it's fine to override binaries, but you'll erase the Corepack ones in the process. (Run [`corepack enable`](https://github.com/nodejs/corepack#corepack-enable--name) to add them back.)

## Crypto#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/crypto.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/crypto.js)

The `node:crypto` module provides cryptographic functionality that includes a
set of wrappers for OpenSSL's hash, HMAC, cipher, decipher, sign, and verify
functions.

    
    
    const { createHmac } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const secret = 'abcdefg';
    const hash = createHmac('sha256', secret)
                   .update('I love cupcakes')
                   .digest('hex');
    console.log(hash);
    // Prints:
    //   c0fa1bc00531bd78ef38c628449c5102aeabd49b5dc3a2a516ea6ea959d6658econst { createHmac } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const secret = 'abcdefg';
    const hash = createHmac('sha256', secret)
                   .update('I love cupcakes')
                   .digest('hex');
    console.log(hash);
    // Prints:
    //   c0fa1bc00531bd78ef38c628449c5102aeabd49b5dc3a2a516ea6ea959d6658ecopy

### Determining if crypto support is unavailable#

It is possible for Node.js to be built without including support for the
`node:crypto` module. In such cases, attempting to `import` from `crypto` or
calling `require('node:crypto')` will result in an error being thrown.

When using CommonJS, the error thrown can be caught using try/catch:

    
    
    let crypto;
    try {
      crypto = require('node:crypto');
    } catch (err) {
      console.error('crypto support is disabled!');
    } copy

When using the lexical ESM `import` keyword, the error can only be caught if a
handler for `process.on('uncaughtException')` is registered _before_ any
attempt to load the module is made (using, for instance, a preload module).

When using ESM, if there is a chance that the code may be run on a build of
Node.js where crypto support is not enabled, consider using the
[`import()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import) function instead of the
lexical `import` keyword:

    
    
    let crypto;
    try {
      crypto = await import('node:crypto');
    } catch (err) {
      console.error('crypto support is disabled!');
    } copy

### Class: `Certificate`#

Added in: v0.11.8

SPKAC is a Certificate Signing Request mechanism originally implemented by
Netscape and was specified formally as part of HTML5's `keygen` element.

`<keygen>` is deprecated since [HTML
5.2](https://www.w3.org/TR/html52/changes.html#features-removed) and new
projects should not use this element anymore.

The `node:crypto` module provides the `Certificate` class for working with
SPKAC data. The most common usage is handling output generated by the HTML5
`<keygen>` element. Node.js uses [OpenSSL's SPKAC
implementation](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man3.0/man1/openssl-spkac.html)
internally.

#### Static method: `Certificate.exportChallenge(spkac[, encoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The spkac argument can be an ArrayBuffer. Limited the size of the spkac argument to a maximum of 2**31 - 1 bytes.  
v9.0.0 | Added in: v9.0.0  
  
  * `spkac` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `spkac` string.
  * Returns: <Buffer> The challenge component of the `spkac` data structure, which includes a public key and a challenge.

    
    
    const { Certificate } = await import('node:crypto');
    const spkac = getSpkacSomehow();
    const challenge = Certificate.exportChallenge(spkac);
    console.log(challenge.toString('utf8'));
    // Prints: the challenge as a UTF8 stringconst { Certificate } = require('node:crypto');
    const spkac = getSpkacSomehow();
    const challenge = Certificate.exportChallenge(spkac);
    console.log(challenge.toString('utf8'));
    // Prints: the challenge as a UTF8 stringcopy

#### Static method: `Certificate.exportPublicKey(spkac[, encoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The spkac argument can be an ArrayBuffer. Limited the size of the spkac argument to a maximum of 2**31 - 1 bytes.  
v9.0.0 | Added in: v9.0.0  
  
  * `spkac` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `spkac` string.
  * Returns: <Buffer> The public key component of the `spkac` data structure, which includes a public key and a challenge.

    
    
    const { Certificate } = await import('node:crypto');
    const spkac = getSpkacSomehow();
    const publicKey = Certificate.exportPublicKey(spkac);
    console.log(publicKey);
    // Prints: the public key as <Buffer ...>const { Certificate } = require('node:crypto');
    const spkac = getSpkacSomehow();
    const publicKey = Certificate.exportPublicKey(spkac);
    console.log(publicKey);
    // Prints: the public key as <Buffer ...>copy

#### Static method: `Certificate.verifySpkac(spkac[, encoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The spkac argument can be an ArrayBuffer. Added encoding. Limited the size of the spkac argument to a maximum of 2**31 - 1 bytes.  
v9.0.0 | Added in: v9.0.0  
  
  * `spkac` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `spkac` string.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the given `spkac` data structure is valid, `false` otherwise.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    const { Certificate } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const spkac = getSpkacSomehow();
    console.log(Certificate.verifySpkac(Buffer.from(spkac)));
    // Prints: true or falseconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    const { Certificate } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const spkac = getSpkacSomehow();
    console.log(Certificate.verifySpkac(Buffer.from(spkac)));
    // Prints: true or falsecopy

#### Legacy API#

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated

As a legacy interface, it is possible to create new instances of the
`crypto.Certificate` class as illustrated in the examples below.

##### `new crypto.Certificate()`#

Instances of the `Certificate` class can be created using the `new` keyword or
by calling `crypto.Certificate()` as a function:

    
    
    const { Certificate } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const cert1 = new Certificate();
    const cert2 = Certificate();const { Certificate } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const cert1 = new Certificate();
    const cert2 = Certificate();copy

##### `certificate.exportChallenge(spkac[, encoding])`#

Added in: v0.11.8

  * `spkac` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `spkac` string.
  * Returns: <Buffer> The challenge component of the `spkac` data structure, which includes a public key and a challenge.

    
    
    const { Certificate } = await import('node:crypto');
    const cert = Certificate();
    const spkac = getSpkacSomehow();
    const challenge = cert.exportChallenge(spkac);
    console.log(challenge.toString('utf8'));
    // Prints: the challenge as a UTF8 stringconst { Certificate } = require('node:crypto');
    const cert = Certificate();
    const spkac = getSpkacSomehow();
    const challenge = cert.exportChallenge(spkac);
    console.log(challenge.toString('utf8'));
    // Prints: the challenge as a UTF8 stringcopy

##### `certificate.exportPublicKey(spkac[, encoding])`#

Added in: v0.11.8

  * `spkac` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `spkac` string.
  * Returns: <Buffer> The public key component of the `spkac` data structure, which includes a public key and a challenge.

    
    
    const { Certificate } = await import('node:crypto');
    const cert = Certificate();
    const spkac = getSpkacSomehow();
    const publicKey = cert.exportPublicKey(spkac);
    console.log(publicKey);
    // Prints: the public key as <Buffer ...>const { Certificate } = require('node:crypto');
    const cert = Certificate();
    const spkac = getSpkacSomehow();
    const publicKey = cert.exportPublicKey(spkac);
    console.log(publicKey);
    // Prints: the public key as <Buffer ...>copy

##### `certificate.verifySpkac(spkac[, encoding])`#

Added in: v0.11.8

  * `spkac` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `spkac` string.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the given `spkac` data structure is valid, `false` otherwise.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    const { Certificate } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const cert = Certificate();
    const spkac = getSpkacSomehow();
    console.log(cert.verifySpkac(Buffer.from(spkac)));
    // Prints: true or falseconst { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    const { Certificate } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const cert = Certificate();
    const spkac = getSpkacSomehow();
    console.log(cert.verifySpkac(Buffer.from(spkac)));
    // Prints: true or falsecopy

### Class: `Cipher`#

Added in: v0.1.94

  * Extends: <stream.Transform>

Instances of the `Cipher` class are used to encrypt data. The class can be
used in one of two ways:

  * As a [stream](stream.html) that is both readable and writable, where plain unencrypted data is written to produce encrypted data on the readable side, or
  * Using the `cipher.update()` and `cipher.final()` methods to produce the encrypted data.

The `crypto.createCipheriv()` method is used to create `Cipher` instances.
`Cipher` objects are not to be created directly using the `new` keyword.

Example: Using `Cipher` objects as streams:

    
    
    const {
      scrypt,
      randomFill,
      createCipheriv,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const algorithm = 'aes-192-cbc';
    const password = 'Password used to generate key';
    
    // First, we'll generate the key. The key length is dependent on the algorithm.
    // In this case for aes192, it is 24 bytes (192 bits).
    scrypt(password, 'salt', 24, (err, key) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      // Then, we'll generate a random initialization vector
      randomFill(new Uint8Array(16), (err, iv) => {
        if (err) throw err;
    
        // Once we have the key and iv, we can create and use the cipher...
        const cipher = createCipheriv(algorithm, key, iv);
    
        let encrypted = '';
        cipher.setEncoding('hex');
    
        cipher.on('data', (chunk) => encrypted += chunk);
        cipher.on('end', () => console.log(encrypted));
    
        cipher.write('some clear text data');
        cipher.end();
      });
    });const {
      scrypt,
      randomFill,
      createCipheriv,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const algorithm = 'aes-192-cbc';
    const password = 'Password used to generate key';
    
    // First, we'll generate the key. The key length is dependent on the algorithm.
    // In this case for aes192, it is 24 bytes (192 bits).
    scrypt(password, 'salt', 24, (err, key) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      // Then, we'll generate a random initialization vector
      randomFill(new Uint8Array(16), (err, iv) => {
        if (err) throw err;
    
        // Once we have the key and iv, we can create and use the cipher...
        const cipher = createCipheriv(algorithm, key, iv);
    
        let encrypted = '';
        cipher.setEncoding('hex');
    
        cipher.on('data', (chunk) => encrypted += chunk);
        cipher.on('end', () => console.log(encrypted));
    
        cipher.write('some clear text data');
        cipher.end();
      });
    });copy

Example: Using `Cipher` and piped streams:

    
    
    import {
      createReadStream,
      createWriteStream,
    } from 'node:fs';
    
    import {
      pipeline,
    } from 'node:stream';
    
    const {
      scrypt,
      randomFill,
      createCipheriv,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const algorithm = 'aes-192-cbc';
    const password = 'Password used to generate key';
    
    // First, we'll generate the key. The key length is dependent on the algorithm.
    // In this case for aes192, it is 24 bytes (192 bits).
    scrypt(password, 'salt', 24, (err, key) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      // Then, we'll generate a random initialization vector
      randomFill(new Uint8Array(16), (err, iv) => {
        if (err) throw err;
    
        const cipher = createCipheriv(algorithm, key, iv);
    
        const input = createReadStream('test.js');
        const output = createWriteStream('test.enc');
    
        pipeline(input, cipher, output, (err) => {
          if (err) throw err;
        });
      });
    });const {
      createReadStream,
      createWriteStream,
    } = require('node:fs');
    
    const {
      pipeline,
    } = require('node:stream');
    
    const {
      scrypt,
      randomFill,
      createCipheriv,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const algorithm = 'aes-192-cbc';
    const password = 'Password used to generate key';
    
    // First, we'll generate the key. The key length is dependent on the algorithm.
    // In this case for aes192, it is 24 bytes (192 bits).
    scrypt(password, 'salt', 24, (err, key) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      // Then, we'll generate a random initialization vector
      randomFill(new Uint8Array(16), (err, iv) => {
        if (err) throw err;
    
        const cipher = createCipheriv(algorithm, key, iv);
    
        const input = createReadStream('test.js');
        const output = createWriteStream('test.enc');
    
        pipeline(input, cipher, output, (err) => {
          if (err) throw err;
        });
      });
    });copy

Example: Using the `cipher.update()` and `cipher.final()` methods:

    
    
    const {
      scrypt,
      randomFill,
      createCipheriv,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const algorithm = 'aes-192-cbc';
    const password = 'Password used to generate key';
    
    // First, we'll generate the key. The key length is dependent on the algorithm.
    // In this case for aes192, it is 24 bytes (192 bits).
    scrypt(password, 'salt', 24, (err, key) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      // Then, we'll generate a random initialization vector
      randomFill(new Uint8Array(16), (err, iv) => {
        if (err) throw err;
    
        const cipher = createCipheriv(algorithm, key, iv);
    
        let encrypted = cipher.update('some clear text data', 'utf8', 'hex');
        encrypted += cipher.final('hex');
        console.log(encrypted);
      });
    });const {
      scrypt,
      randomFill,
      createCipheriv,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const algorithm = 'aes-192-cbc';
    const password = 'Password used to generate key';
    
    // First, we'll generate the key. The key length is dependent on the algorithm.
    // In this case for aes192, it is 24 bytes (192 bits).
    scrypt(password, 'salt', 24, (err, key) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      // Then, we'll generate a random initialization vector
      randomFill(new Uint8Array(16), (err, iv) => {
        if (err) throw err;
    
        const cipher = createCipheriv(algorithm, key, iv);
    
        let encrypted = cipher.update('some clear text data', 'utf8', 'hex');
        encrypted += cipher.final('hex');
        console.log(encrypted);
      });
    });copy

#### `cipher.final([outputEncoding])`#

Added in: v0.1.94

  * `outputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Any remaining enciphered contents. If `outputEncoding` is specified, a string is returned. If an `outputEncoding` is not provided, a [`Buffer`](buffer.html) is returned.

Once the `cipher.final()` method has been called, the `Cipher` object can no
longer be used to encrypt data. Attempts to call `cipher.final()` more than
once will result in an error being thrown.

#### `cipher.getAuthTag()`#

Added in: v1.0.0

  * Returns: <Buffer> When using an authenticated encryption mode (`GCM`, `CCM`, `OCB`, and `chacha20-poly1305` are currently supported), the `cipher.getAuthTag()` method returns a [`Buffer`](buffer.html) containing the _authentication tag_ that has been computed from the given data.

The `cipher.getAuthTag()` method should only be called after encryption has
been completed using the `cipher.final()` method.

If the `authTagLength` option was set during the `cipher` instance's creation,
this function will return exactly `authTagLength` bytes.

#### `cipher.setAAD(buffer[, options])`#

Added in: v1.0.0

  * `buffer` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) `stream.transform` options
    * `plaintextLength` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The string encoding to use when `buffer` is a string.
  * Returns: <Cipher> The same `Cipher` instance for method chaining.

When using an authenticated encryption mode (`GCM`, `CCM`, `OCB`, and
`chacha20-poly1305` are currently supported), the `cipher.setAAD()` method
sets the value used for the _additional authenticated data_ (AAD) input
parameter.

The `plaintextLength` option is optional for `GCM` and `OCB`. When using
`CCM`, the `plaintextLength` option must be specified and its value must match
the length of the plaintext in bytes. See CCM mode.

The `cipher.setAAD()` method must be called before `cipher.update()`.

#### `cipher.setAutoPadding([autoPadding])`#

Added in: v0.7.1

  * `autoPadding` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `true`
  * Returns: <Cipher> The same `Cipher` instance for method chaining.

When using block encryption algorithms, the `Cipher` class will automatically
add padding to the input data to the appropriate block size. To disable the
default padding call `cipher.setAutoPadding(false)`.

When `autoPadding` is `false`, the length of the entire input data must be a
multiple of the cipher's block size or `cipher.final()` will throw an error.
Disabling automatic padding is useful for non-standard padding, for instance
using `0x0` instead of PKCS padding.

The `cipher.setAutoPadding()` method must be called before `cipher.final()`.

#### `cipher.update(data[, inputEncoding][, outputEncoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.0.0 | The default `inputEncoding` changed from `binary` to `utf8`.  
v0.1.94 | Added in: v0.1.94  
  
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `inputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the data.
  * `outputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Updates the cipher with `data`. If the `inputEncoding` argument is given, the
`data` argument is a string using the specified encoding. If the
`inputEncoding` argument is not given, `data` must be a
[`Buffer`](buffer.html), `TypedArray`, or `DataView`. If `data` is a
[`Buffer`](buffer.html), `TypedArray`, or `DataView`, then `inputEncoding` is
ignored.

The `outputEncoding` specifies the output format of the enciphered data. If
the `outputEncoding` is specified, a string using the specified encoding is
returned. If no `outputEncoding` is provided, a [`Buffer`](buffer.html) is
returned.

The `cipher.update()` method can be called multiple times with new data until
`cipher.final()` is called. Calling `cipher.update()` after `cipher.final()`
will result in an error being thrown.

### Class: `Decipher`#

Added in: v0.1.94

  * Extends: <stream.Transform>

Instances of the `Decipher` class are used to decrypt data. The class can be
used in one of two ways:

  * As a [stream](stream.html) that is both readable and writable, where plain encrypted data is written to produce unencrypted data on the readable side, or
  * Using the `decipher.update()` and `decipher.final()` methods to produce the unencrypted data.

The `crypto.createDecipheriv()` method is used to create `Decipher` instances.
`Decipher` objects are not to be created directly using the `new` keyword.

Example: Using `Decipher` objects as streams:

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    const {
      scryptSync,
      createDecipheriv,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const algorithm = 'aes-192-cbc';
    const password = 'Password used to generate key';
    // Key length is dependent on the algorithm. In this case for aes192, it is
    // 24 bytes (192 bits).
    // Use the async `crypto.scrypt()` instead.
    const key = scryptSync(password, 'salt', 24);
    // The IV is usually passed along with the ciphertext.
    const iv = Buffer.alloc(16, 0); // Initialization vector.
    
    const decipher = createDecipheriv(algorithm, key, iv);
    
    let decrypted = '';
    decipher.on('readable', () => {
      let chunk;
      while (null !== (chunk = decipher.read())) {
        decrypted += chunk.toString('utf8');
      }
    });
    decipher.on('end', () => {
      console.log(decrypted);
      // Prints: some clear text data
    });
    
    // Encrypted with same algorithm, key and iv.
    const encrypted =
      'e5f79c5915c02171eec6b212d5520d44480993d7d622a7c4c2da32f6efda0ffa';
    decipher.write(encrypted, 'hex');
    decipher.end();const {
      scryptSync,
      createDecipheriv,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const algorithm = 'aes-192-cbc';
    const password = 'Password used to generate key';
    // Key length is dependent on the algorithm. In this case for aes192, it is
    // 24 bytes (192 bits).
    // Use the async `crypto.scrypt()` instead.
    const key = scryptSync(password, 'salt', 24);
    // The IV is usually passed along with the ciphertext.
    const iv = Buffer.alloc(16, 0); // Initialization vector.
    
    const decipher = createDecipheriv(algorithm, key, iv);
    
    let decrypted = '';
    decipher.on('readable', () => {
      let chunk;
      while (null !== (chunk = decipher.read())) {
        decrypted += chunk.toString('utf8');
      }
    });
    decipher.on('end', () => {
      console.log(decrypted);
      // Prints: some clear text data
    });
    
    // Encrypted with same algorithm, key and iv.
    const encrypted =
      'e5f79c5915c02171eec6b212d5520d44480993d7d622a7c4c2da32f6efda0ffa';
    decipher.write(encrypted, 'hex');
    decipher.end();copy

Example: Using `Decipher` and piped streams:

    
    
    import {
      createReadStream,
      createWriteStream,
    } from 'node:fs';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    const {
      scryptSync,
      createDecipheriv,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const algorithm = 'aes-192-cbc';
    const password = 'Password used to generate key';
    // Use the async `crypto.scrypt()` instead.
    const key = scryptSync(password, 'salt', 24);
    // The IV is usually passed along with the ciphertext.
    const iv = Buffer.alloc(16, 0); // Initialization vector.
    
    const decipher = createDecipheriv(algorithm, key, iv);
    
    const input = createReadStream('test.enc');
    const output = createWriteStream('test.js');
    
    input.pipe(decipher).pipe(output);const {
      createReadStream,
      createWriteStream,
    } = require('node:fs');
    const {
      scryptSync,
      createDecipheriv,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const algorithm = 'aes-192-cbc';
    const password = 'Password used to generate key';
    // Use the async `crypto.scrypt()` instead.
    const key = scryptSync(password, 'salt', 24);
    // The IV is usually passed along with the ciphertext.
    const iv = Buffer.alloc(16, 0); // Initialization vector.
    
    const decipher = createDecipheriv(algorithm, key, iv);
    
    const input = createReadStream('test.enc');
    const output = createWriteStream('test.js');
    
    input.pipe(decipher).pipe(output);copy

Example: Using the `decipher.update()` and `decipher.final()` methods:

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    const {
      scryptSync,
      createDecipheriv,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const algorithm = 'aes-192-cbc';
    const password = 'Password used to generate key';
    // Use the async `crypto.scrypt()` instead.
    const key = scryptSync(password, 'salt', 24);
    // The IV is usually passed along with the ciphertext.
    const iv = Buffer.alloc(16, 0); // Initialization vector.
    
    const decipher = createDecipheriv(algorithm, key, iv);
    
    // Encrypted using same algorithm, key and iv.
    const encrypted =
      'e5f79c5915c02171eec6b212d5520d44480993d7d622a7c4c2da32f6efda0ffa';
    let decrypted = decipher.update(encrypted, 'hex', 'utf8');
    decrypted += decipher.final('utf8');
    console.log(decrypted);
    // Prints: some clear text dataconst {
      scryptSync,
      createDecipheriv,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const algorithm = 'aes-192-cbc';
    const password = 'Password used to generate key';
    // Use the async `crypto.scrypt()` instead.
    const key = scryptSync(password, 'salt', 24);
    // The IV is usually passed along with the ciphertext.
    const iv = Buffer.alloc(16, 0); // Initialization vector.
    
    const decipher = createDecipheriv(algorithm, key, iv);
    
    // Encrypted using same algorithm, key and iv.
    const encrypted =
      'e5f79c5915c02171eec6b212d5520d44480993d7d622a7c4c2da32f6efda0ffa';
    let decrypted = decipher.update(encrypted, 'hex', 'utf8');
    decrypted += decipher.final('utf8');
    console.log(decrypted);
    // Prints: some clear text datacopy

#### `decipher.final([outputEncoding])`#

Added in: v0.1.94

  * `outputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Any remaining deciphered contents. If `outputEncoding` is specified, a string is returned. If an `outputEncoding` is not provided, a [`Buffer`](buffer.html) is returned.

Once the `decipher.final()` method has been called, the `Decipher` object can
no longer be used to decrypt data. Attempts to call `decipher.final()` more
than once will result in an error being thrown.

#### `decipher.setAAD(buffer[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The buffer argument can be a string or ArrayBuffer and is limited to no more than 2 ** 31 - 1 bytes.  
v7.2.0 | This method now returns a reference to `decipher`.  
v1.0.0 | Added in: v1.0.0  
  
  * `buffer` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) `stream.transform` options
    * `plaintextLength` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) String encoding to use when `buffer` is a string.
  * Returns: <Decipher> The same Decipher for method chaining.

When using an authenticated encryption mode (`GCM`, `CCM`, `OCB`, and
`chacha20-poly1305` are currently supported), the `decipher.setAAD()` method
sets the value used for the _additional authenticated data_ (AAD) input
parameter.

The `options` argument is optional for `GCM`. When using `CCM`, the
`plaintextLength` option must be specified and its value must match the length
of the ciphertext in bytes. See CCM mode.

The `decipher.setAAD()` method must be called before `decipher.update()`.

When passing a string as the `buffer`, please consider caveats when using
strings as inputs to cryptographic APIs.

#### `decipher.setAuthTag(buffer[, encoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0, v20.13.0 | Using GCM tag lengths other than 128 bits without specifying the `authTagLength` option when creating `decipher` is deprecated.  
v15.0.0 | The buffer argument can be a string or ArrayBuffer and is limited to no more than 2 ** 31 - 1 bytes.  
v11.0.0 | This method now throws if the GCM tag length is invalid.  
v7.2.0 | This method now returns a reference to `decipher`.  
v1.0.0 | Added in: v1.0.0  
  
  * `buffer` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) String encoding to use when `buffer` is a string.
  * Returns: <Decipher> The same Decipher for method chaining.

When using an authenticated encryption mode (`GCM`, `CCM`, `OCB`, and
`chacha20-poly1305` are currently supported), the `decipher.setAuthTag()`
method is used to pass in the received _authentication tag_. If no tag is
provided, or if the cipher text has been tampered with, `decipher.final()`
will throw, indicating that the cipher text should be discarded due to failed
authentication. If the tag length is invalid according to [NIST SP
800-38D](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-38d.pdf)
or does not match the value of the `authTagLength` option,
`decipher.setAuthTag()` will throw an error.

The `decipher.setAuthTag()` method must be called before `decipher.update()`
for `CCM` mode or before `decipher.final()` for `GCM` and `OCB` modes and
`chacha20-poly1305`. `decipher.setAuthTag()` can only be called once.

When passing a string as the authentication tag, please consider caveats when
using strings as inputs to cryptographic APIs.

#### `decipher.setAutoPadding([autoPadding])`#

Added in: v0.7.1

  * `autoPadding` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `true`
  * Returns: <Decipher> The same Decipher for method chaining.

When data has been encrypted without standard block padding, calling
`decipher.setAutoPadding(false)` will disable automatic padding to prevent
`decipher.final()` from checking for and removing padding.

Turning auto padding off will only work if the input data's length is a
multiple of the ciphers block size.

The `decipher.setAutoPadding()` method must be called before
`decipher.final()`.

#### `decipher.update(data[, inputEncoding][, outputEncoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.0.0 | The default `inputEncoding` changed from `binary` to `utf8`.  
v0.1.94 | Added in: v0.1.94  
  
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `inputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `data` string.
  * `outputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Updates the decipher with `data`. If the `inputEncoding` argument is given,
the `data` argument is a string using the specified encoding. If the
`inputEncoding` argument is not given, `data` must be a
[`Buffer`](buffer.html). If `data` is a [`Buffer`](buffer.html) then
`inputEncoding` is ignored.

The `outputEncoding` specifies the output format of the enciphered data. If
the `outputEncoding` is specified, a string using the specified encoding is
returned. If no `outputEncoding` is provided, a [`Buffer`](buffer.html) is
returned.

The `decipher.update()` method can be called multiple times with new data
until `decipher.final()` is called. Calling `decipher.update()` after
`decipher.final()` will result in an error being thrown.

Even if the underlying cipher implements authentication, the authenticity and
integrity of the plaintext returned from this function may be uncertain at
this time. For authenticated encryption algorithms, authenticity is generally
only established when the application calls `decipher.final()`.

### Class: `DiffieHellman`#

Added in: v0.5.0

The `DiffieHellman` class is a utility for creating Diffie-Hellman key
exchanges.

Instances of the `DiffieHellman` class can be created using the
`crypto.createDiffieHellman()` function.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    
    const {
      createDiffieHellman,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    // Generate Alice's keys...
    const alice = createDiffieHellman(2048);
    const aliceKey = alice.generateKeys();
    
    // Generate Bob's keys...
    const bob = createDiffieHellman(alice.getPrime(), alice.getGenerator());
    const bobKey = bob.generateKeys();
    
    // Exchange and generate the secret...
    const aliceSecret = alice.computeSecret(bobKey);
    const bobSecret = bob.computeSecret(aliceKey);
    
    // OK
    assert.strictEqual(aliceSecret.toString('hex'), bobSecret.toString('hex'));const assert = require('node:assert');
    
    const {
      createDiffieHellman,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    // Generate Alice's keys...
    const alice = createDiffieHellman(2048);
    const aliceKey = alice.generateKeys();
    
    // Generate Bob's keys...
    const bob = createDiffieHellman(alice.getPrime(), alice.getGenerator());
    const bobKey = bob.generateKeys();
    
    // Exchange and generate the secret...
    const aliceSecret = alice.computeSecret(bobKey);
    const bobSecret = bob.computeSecret(aliceKey);
    
    // OK
    assert.strictEqual(aliceSecret.toString('hex'), bobSecret.toString('hex'));copy

#### `diffieHellman.computeSecret(otherPublicKey[, inputEncoding][,
outputEncoding])`#

Added in: v0.5.0

  * `otherPublicKey` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `inputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of an `otherPublicKey` string.
  * `outputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Computes the shared secret using `otherPublicKey` as the other party's public
key and returns the computed shared secret. The supplied key is interpreted
using the specified `inputEncoding`, and secret is encoded using specified
`outputEncoding`. If the `inputEncoding` is not provided, `otherPublicKey` is
expected to be a [`Buffer`](buffer.html), `TypedArray`, or `DataView`.

If `outputEncoding` is given a string is returned; otherwise, a
[`Buffer`](buffer.html) is returned.

#### `diffieHellman.generateKeys([encoding])`#

Added in: v0.5.0

  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Generates private and public Diffie-Hellman key values unless they have been
generated or computed already, and returns the public key in the specified
`encoding`. This key should be transferred to the other party. If `encoding`
is provided a string is returned; otherwise a [`Buffer`](buffer.html) is
returned.

This function is a thin wrapper around
[`DH_generate_key()`](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man3.0/man3/DH_generate_key.html).
In particular, once a private key has been generated or set, calling this
function only updates the public key but does not generate a new private key.

#### `diffieHellman.getGenerator([encoding])`#

Added in: v0.5.0

  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the Diffie-Hellman generator in the specified `encoding`. If
`encoding` is provided a string is returned; otherwise a
[`Buffer`](buffer.html) is returned.

#### `diffieHellman.getPrime([encoding])`#

Added in: v0.5.0

  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the Diffie-Hellman prime in the specified `encoding`. If `encoding` is
provided a string is returned; otherwise a [`Buffer`](buffer.html) is
returned.

#### `diffieHellman.getPrivateKey([encoding])`#

Added in: v0.5.0

  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the Diffie-Hellman private key in the specified `encoding`. If
`encoding` is provided a string is returned; otherwise a
[`Buffer`](buffer.html) is returned.

#### `diffieHellman.getPublicKey([encoding])`#

Added in: v0.5.0

  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the Diffie-Hellman public key in the specified `encoding`. If
`encoding` is provided a string is returned; otherwise a
[`Buffer`](buffer.html) is returned.

#### `diffieHellman.setPrivateKey(privateKey[, encoding])`#

Added in: v0.5.0

  * `privateKey` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `privateKey` string.

Sets the Diffie-Hellman private key. If the `encoding` argument is provided,
`privateKey` is expected to be a string. If no `encoding` is provided,
`privateKey` is expected to be a [`Buffer`](buffer.html), `TypedArray`, or
`DataView`.

This function does not automatically compute the associated public key. Either
`diffieHellman.setPublicKey()` or `diffieHellman.generateKeys()` can be used
to manually provide the public key or to automatically derive it.

#### `diffieHellman.setPublicKey(publicKey[, encoding])`#

Added in: v0.5.0

  * `publicKey` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `publicKey` string.

Sets the Diffie-Hellman public key. If the `encoding` argument is provided,
`publicKey` is expected to be a string. If no `encoding` is provided,
`publicKey` is expected to be a [`Buffer`](buffer.html), `TypedArray`, or
`DataView`.

#### `diffieHellman.verifyError`#

Added in: v0.11.12

A bit field containing any warnings and/or errors resulting from a check
performed during initialization of the `DiffieHellman` object.

The following values are valid for this property (as defined in
`node:constants` module):

  * `DH_CHECK_P_NOT_SAFE_PRIME`
  * `DH_CHECK_P_NOT_PRIME`
  * `DH_UNABLE_TO_CHECK_GENERATOR`
  * `DH_NOT_SUITABLE_GENERATOR`

### Class: `DiffieHellmanGroup`#

Added in: v0.7.5

The `DiffieHellmanGroup` class takes a well-known modp group as its argument.
It works the same as `DiffieHellman`, except that it does not allow changing
its keys after creation. In other words, it does not implement
`setPublicKey()` or `setPrivateKey()` methods.

    
    
    const { createDiffieHellmanGroup } = await import('node:crypto');
    const dh = createDiffieHellmanGroup('modp16');const { createDiffieHellmanGroup } = require('node:crypto');
    const dh = createDiffieHellmanGroup('modp16');copy

The following groups are supported:

  * `'modp14'` (2048 bits, [RFC 3526](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3526.txt) Section 3)
  * `'modp15'` (3072 bits, [RFC 3526](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3526.txt) Section 4)
  * `'modp16'` (4096 bits, [RFC 3526](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3526.txt) Section 5)
  * `'modp17'` (6144 bits, [RFC 3526](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3526.txt) Section 6)
  * `'modp18'` (8192 bits, [RFC 3526](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3526.txt) Section 7)

The following groups are still supported but deprecated (see Caveats):

  * `'modp1'` (768 bits, [RFC 2409](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2409.txt) Section 6.1) 
  * `'modp2'` (1024 bits, [RFC 2409](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2409.txt) Section 6.2) 
  * `'modp5'` (1536 bits, [RFC 3526](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3526.txt) Section 2) 

These deprecated groups might be removed in future versions of Node.js.

### Class: `ECDH`#

Added in: v0.11.14

The `ECDH` class is a utility for creating Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman
(ECDH) key exchanges.

Instances of the `ECDH` class can be created using the `crypto.createECDH()`
function.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    
    const {
      createECDH,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    // Generate Alice's keys...
    const alice = createECDH('secp521r1');
    const aliceKey = alice.generateKeys();
    
    // Generate Bob's keys...
    const bob = createECDH('secp521r1');
    const bobKey = bob.generateKeys();
    
    // Exchange and generate the secret...
    const aliceSecret = alice.computeSecret(bobKey);
    const bobSecret = bob.computeSecret(aliceKey);
    
    assert.strictEqual(aliceSecret.toString('hex'), bobSecret.toString('hex'));
    // OKconst assert = require('node:assert');
    
    const {
      createECDH,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    // Generate Alice's keys...
    const alice = createECDH('secp521r1');
    const aliceKey = alice.generateKeys();
    
    // Generate Bob's keys...
    const bob = createECDH('secp521r1');
    const bobKey = bob.generateKeys();
    
    // Exchange and generate the secret...
    const aliceSecret = alice.computeSecret(bobKey);
    const bobSecret = bob.computeSecret(aliceKey);
    
    assert.strictEqual(aliceSecret.toString('hex'), bobSecret.toString('hex'));
    // OKcopy

#### Static method: `ECDH.convertKey(key, curve[, inputEncoding[,
outputEncoding[, format]]])`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `key` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `curve` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `inputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `key` string.
  * `outputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * `format` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'uncompressed'`
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Converts the EC Diffie-Hellman public key specified by `key` and `curve` to
the format specified by `format`. The `format` argument specifies point
encoding and can be `'compressed'`, `'uncompressed'` or `'hybrid'`. The
supplied key is interpreted using the specified `inputEncoding`, and the
returned key is encoded using the specified `outputEncoding`.

Use `crypto.getCurves()` to obtain a list of available curve names. On recent
OpenSSL releases, `openssl ecparam -list_curves` will also display the name
and description of each available elliptic curve.

If `format` is not specified the point will be returned in `'uncompressed'`
format.

If the `inputEncoding` is not provided, `key` is expected to be a
[`Buffer`](buffer.html), `TypedArray`, or `DataView`.

Example (uncompressing a key):

    
    
    const {
      createECDH,
      ECDH,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const ecdh = createECDH('secp256k1');
    ecdh.generateKeys();
    
    const compressedKey = ecdh.getPublicKey('hex', 'compressed');
    
    const uncompressedKey = ECDH.convertKey(compressedKey,
                                            'secp256k1',
                                            'hex',
                                            'hex',
                                            'uncompressed');
    
    // The converted key and the uncompressed public key should be the same
    console.log(uncompressedKey === ecdh.getPublicKey('hex'));const {
      createECDH,
      ECDH,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const ecdh = createECDH('secp256k1');
    ecdh.generateKeys();
    
    const compressedKey = ecdh.getPublicKey('hex', 'compressed');
    
    const uncompressedKey = ECDH.convertKey(compressedKey,
                                            'secp256k1',
                                            'hex',
                                            'hex',
                                            'uncompressed');
    
    // The converted key and the uncompressed public key should be the same
    console.log(uncompressedKey === ecdh.getPublicKey('hex'));copy

#### `ecdh.computeSecret(otherPublicKey[, inputEncoding][, outputEncoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Changed error format to better support invalid public key error.  
v6.0.0 | The default `inputEncoding` changed from `binary` to `utf8`.  
v0.11.14 | Added in: v0.11.14  
  
  * `otherPublicKey` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `inputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `otherPublicKey` string.
  * `outputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Computes the shared secret using `otherPublicKey` as the other party's public
key and returns the computed shared secret. The supplied key is interpreted
using specified `inputEncoding`, and the returned secret is encoded using the
specified `outputEncoding`. If the `inputEncoding` is not provided,
`otherPublicKey` is expected to be a [`Buffer`](buffer.html), `TypedArray`, or
`DataView`.

If `outputEncoding` is given a string will be returned; otherwise a
[`Buffer`](buffer.html) is returned.

`ecdh.computeSecret` will throw an `ERR_CRYPTO_ECDH_INVALID_PUBLIC_KEY` error
when `otherPublicKey` lies outside of the elliptic curve. Since
`otherPublicKey` is usually supplied from a remote user over an insecure
network, be sure to handle this exception accordingly.

#### `ecdh.generateKeys([encoding[, format]])`#

Added in: v0.11.14

  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * `format` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'uncompressed'`
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Generates private and public EC Diffie-Hellman key values, and returns the
public key in the specified `format` and `encoding`. This key should be
transferred to the other party.

The `format` argument specifies point encoding and can be `'compressed'` or
`'uncompressed'`. If `format` is not specified, the point will be returned in
`'uncompressed'` format.

If `encoding` is provided a string is returned; otherwise a
[`Buffer`](buffer.html) is returned.

#### `ecdh.getPrivateKey([encoding])`#

Added in: v0.11.14

  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The EC Diffie-Hellman in the specified `encoding`.

If `encoding` is specified, a string is returned; otherwise a
[`Buffer`](buffer.html) is returned.

#### `ecdh.getPublicKey([encoding][, format])`#

Added in: v0.11.14

  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * `format` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'uncompressed'`
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The EC Diffie-Hellman public key in the specified `encoding` and `format`.

The `format` argument specifies point encoding and can be `'compressed'` or
`'uncompressed'`. If `format` is not specified the point will be returned in
`'uncompressed'` format.

If `encoding` is specified, a string is returned; otherwise a
[`Buffer`](buffer.html) is returned.

#### `ecdh.setPrivateKey(privateKey[, encoding])`#

Added in: v0.11.14

  * `privateKey` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `privateKey` string.

Sets the EC Diffie-Hellman private key. If `encoding` is provided,
`privateKey` is expected to be a string; otherwise `privateKey` is expected to
be a [`Buffer`](buffer.html), `TypedArray`, or `DataView`.

If `privateKey` is not valid for the curve specified when the `ECDH` object
was created, an error is thrown. Upon setting the private key, the associated
public point (key) is also generated and set in the `ECDH` object.

#### `ecdh.setPublicKey(publicKey[, encoding])`#

Added in: v0.11.14Deprecated since: v5.2.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated

  * `publicKey` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `publicKey` string.

Sets the EC Diffie-Hellman public key. If `encoding` is provided `publicKey`
is expected to be a string; otherwise a [`Buffer`](buffer.html), `TypedArray`,
or `DataView` is expected.

There is not normally a reason to call this method because `ECDH` only
requires a private key and the other party's public key to compute the shared
secret. Typically either `ecdh.generateKeys()` or `ecdh.setPrivateKey()` will
be called. The `ecdh.setPrivateKey()` method attempts to generate the public
point/key associated with the private key being set.

Example (obtaining a shared secret):

    
    
    const {
      createECDH,
      createHash,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const alice = createECDH('secp256k1');
    const bob = createECDH('secp256k1');
    
    // This is a shortcut way of specifying one of Alice's previous private
    // keys. It would be unwise to use such a predictable private key in a real
    // application.
    alice.setPrivateKey(
      createHash('sha256').update('alice', 'utf8').digest(),
    );
    
    // Bob uses a newly generated cryptographically strong
    // pseudorandom key pair
    bob.generateKeys();
    
    const aliceSecret = alice.computeSecret(bob.getPublicKey(), null, 'hex');
    const bobSecret = bob.computeSecret(alice.getPublicKey(), null, 'hex');
    
    // aliceSecret and bobSecret should be the same shared secret value
    console.log(aliceSecret === bobSecret);const {
      createECDH,
      createHash,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const alice = createECDH('secp256k1');
    const bob = createECDH('secp256k1');
    
    // This is a shortcut way of specifying one of Alice's previous private
    // keys. It would be unwise to use such a predictable private key in a real
    // application.
    alice.setPrivateKey(
      createHash('sha256').update('alice', 'utf8').digest(),
    );
    
    // Bob uses a newly generated cryptographically strong
    // pseudorandom key pair
    bob.generateKeys();
    
    const aliceSecret = alice.computeSecret(bob.getPublicKey(), null, 'hex');
    const bobSecret = bob.computeSecret(alice.getPublicKey(), null, 'hex');
    
    // aliceSecret and bobSecret should be the same shared secret value
    console.log(aliceSecret === bobSecret);copy

### Class: `Hash`#

Added in: v0.1.92

  * Extends: <stream.Transform>

The `Hash` class is a utility for creating hash digests of data. It can be
used in one of two ways:

  * As a [stream](stream.html) that is both readable and writable, where data is written to produce a computed hash digest on the readable side, or
  * Using the `hash.update()` and `hash.digest()` methods to produce the computed hash.

The `crypto.createHash()` method is used to create `Hash` instances. `Hash`
objects are not to be created directly using the `new` keyword.

Example: Using `Hash` objects as streams:

    
    
    const {
      createHash,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const hash = createHash('sha256');
    
    hash.on('readable', () => {
      // Only one element is going to be produced by the
      // hash stream.
      const data = hash.read();
      if (data) {
        console.log(data.toString('hex'));
        // Prints:
        //   6a2da20943931e9834fc12cfe5bb47bbd9ae43489a30726962b576f4e3993e50
      }
    });
    
    hash.write('some data to hash');
    hash.end();const {
      createHash,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const hash = createHash('sha256');
    
    hash.on('readable', () => {
      // Only one element is going to be produced by the
      // hash stream.
      const data = hash.read();
      if (data) {
        console.log(data.toString('hex'));
        // Prints:
        //   6a2da20943931e9834fc12cfe5bb47bbd9ae43489a30726962b576f4e3993e50
      }
    });
    
    hash.write('some data to hash');
    hash.end();copy

Example: Using `Hash` and piped streams:

    
    
    import { createReadStream } from 'node:fs';
    import { stdout } from 'node:process';
    const { createHash } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const hash = createHash('sha256');
    
    const input = createReadStream('test.js');
    input.pipe(hash).setEncoding('hex').pipe(stdout);const { createReadStream } = require('node:fs');
    const { createHash } = require('node:crypto');
    const { stdout } = require('node:process');
    
    const hash = createHash('sha256');
    
    const input = createReadStream('test.js');
    input.pipe(hash).setEncoding('hex').pipe(stdout);copy

Example: Using the `hash.update()` and `hash.digest()` methods:

    
    
    const {
      createHash,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const hash = createHash('sha256');
    
    hash.update('some data to hash');
    console.log(hash.digest('hex'));
    // Prints:
    //   6a2da20943931e9834fc12cfe5bb47bbd9ae43489a30726962b576f4e3993e50const {
      createHash,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const hash = createHash('sha256');
    
    hash.update('some data to hash');
    console.log(hash.digest('hex'));
    // Prints:
    //   6a2da20943931e9834fc12cfe5bb47bbd9ae43489a30726962b576f4e3993e50copy

#### `hash.copy([options])`#

Added in: v13.1.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) `stream.transform` options
  * Returns: <Hash>

Creates a new `Hash` object that contains a deep copy of the internal state of
the current `Hash` object.

The optional `options` argument controls stream behavior. For XOF hash
functions such as `'shake256'`, the `outputLength` option can be used to
specify the desired output length in bytes.

An error is thrown when an attempt is made to copy the `Hash` object after its
`hash.digest()` method has been called.

    
    
    // Calculate a rolling hash.
    const {
      createHash,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const hash = createHash('sha256');
    
    hash.update('one');
    console.log(hash.copy().digest('hex'));
    
    hash.update('two');
    console.log(hash.copy().digest('hex'));
    
    hash.update('three');
    console.log(hash.copy().digest('hex'));
    
    // Etc.// Calculate a rolling hash.
    const {
      createHash,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const hash = createHash('sha256');
    
    hash.update('one');
    console.log(hash.copy().digest('hex'));
    
    hash.update('two');
    console.log(hash.copy().digest('hex'));
    
    hash.update('three');
    console.log(hash.copy().digest('hex'));
    
    // Etc.copy

#### `hash.digest([encoding])`#

Added in: v0.1.92

  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Calculates the digest of all of the data passed to be hashed (using the
`hash.update()` method). If `encoding` is provided a string will be returned;
otherwise a [`Buffer`](buffer.html) is returned.

The `Hash` object can not be used again after `hash.digest()` method has been
called. Multiple calls will cause an error to be thrown.

#### `hash.update(data[, inputEncoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.0.0 | The default `inputEncoding` changed from `binary` to `utf8`.  
v0.1.92 | Added in: v0.1.92  
  
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `inputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `data` string.

Updates the hash content with the given `data`, the encoding of which is given
in `inputEncoding`. If `encoding` is not provided, and the `data` is a string,
an encoding of `'utf8'` is enforced. If `data` is a [`Buffer`](buffer.html),
`TypedArray`, or `DataView`, then `inputEncoding` is ignored.

This can be called many times with new data as it is streamed.

### Class: `Hmac`#

Added in: v0.1.94

  * Extends: <stream.Transform>

The `Hmac` class is a utility for creating cryptographic HMAC digests. It can
be used in one of two ways:

  * As a [stream](stream.html) that is both readable and writable, where data is written to produce a computed HMAC digest on the readable side, or
  * Using the `hmac.update()` and `hmac.digest()` methods to produce the computed HMAC digest.

The `crypto.createHmac()` method is used to create `Hmac` instances. `Hmac`
objects are not to be created directly using the `new` keyword.

Example: Using `Hmac` objects as streams:

    
    
    const {
      createHmac,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const hmac = createHmac('sha256', 'a secret');
    
    hmac.on('readable', () => {
      // Only one element is going to be produced by the
      // hash stream.
      const data = hmac.read();
      if (data) {
        console.log(data.toString('hex'));
        // Prints:
        //   7fd04df92f636fd450bc841c9418e5825c17f33ad9c87c518115a45971f7f77e
      }
    });
    
    hmac.write('some data to hash');
    hmac.end();const {
      createHmac,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const hmac = createHmac('sha256', 'a secret');
    
    hmac.on('readable', () => {
      // Only one element is going to be produced by the
      // hash stream.
      const data = hmac.read();
      if (data) {
        console.log(data.toString('hex'));
        // Prints:
        //   7fd04df92f636fd450bc841c9418e5825c17f33ad9c87c518115a45971f7f77e
      }
    });
    
    hmac.write('some data to hash');
    hmac.end();copy

Example: Using `Hmac` and piped streams:

    
    
    import { createReadStream } from 'node:fs';
    import { stdout } from 'node:process';
    const {
      createHmac,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const hmac = createHmac('sha256', 'a secret');
    
    const input = createReadStream('test.js');
    input.pipe(hmac).pipe(stdout);const {
      createReadStream,
    } = require('node:fs');
    const {
      createHmac,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    const { stdout } = require('node:process');
    
    const hmac = createHmac('sha256', 'a secret');
    
    const input = createReadStream('test.js');
    input.pipe(hmac).pipe(stdout);copy

Example: Using the `hmac.update()` and `hmac.digest()` methods:

    
    
    const {
      createHmac,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const hmac = createHmac('sha256', 'a secret');
    
    hmac.update('some data to hash');
    console.log(hmac.digest('hex'));
    // Prints:
    //   7fd04df92f636fd450bc841c9418e5825c17f33ad9c87c518115a45971f7f77econst {
      createHmac,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const hmac = createHmac('sha256', 'a secret');
    
    hmac.update('some data to hash');
    console.log(hmac.digest('hex'));
    // Prints:
    //   7fd04df92f636fd450bc841c9418e5825c17f33ad9c87c518115a45971f7f77ecopy

#### `hmac.digest([encoding])`#

Added in: v0.1.94

  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Calculates the HMAC digest of all of the data passed using `hmac.update()`. If
`encoding` is provided a string is returned; otherwise a
[`Buffer`](buffer.html) is returned;

The `Hmac` object can not be used again after `hmac.digest()` has been called.
Multiple calls to `hmac.digest()` will result in an error being thrown.

#### `hmac.update(data[, inputEncoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.0.0 | The default `inputEncoding` changed from `binary` to `utf8`.  
v0.1.94 | Added in: v0.1.94  
  
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `inputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `data` string.

Updates the `Hmac` content with the given `data`, the encoding of which is
given in `inputEncoding`. If `encoding` is not provided, and the `data` is a
string, an encoding of `'utf8'` is enforced. If `data` is a
[`Buffer`](buffer.html), `TypedArray`, or `DataView`, then `inputEncoding` is
ignored.

This can be called many times with new data as it is streamed.

### Class: `KeyObject`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.5.0, v12.19.0 | Instances of this class can now be passed to worker threads using `postMessage`.  
v11.13.0 | This class is now exported.  
v11.6.0 | Added in: v11.6.0  
  
Node.js uses a `KeyObject` class to represent a symmetric or asymmetric key,
and each kind of key exposes different functions. The
`crypto.createSecretKey()`, `crypto.createPublicKey()` and
`crypto.createPrivateKey()` methods are used to create `KeyObject` instances.
`KeyObject` objects are not to be created directly using the `new` keyword.

Most applications should consider using the new `KeyObject` API instead of
passing keys as strings or `Buffer`s due to improved security features.

`KeyObject` instances can be passed to other threads via `postMessage()`. The
receiver obtains a cloned `KeyObject`, and the `KeyObject` does not need to be
listed in the `transferList` argument.

#### Static method: `KeyObject.from(key)`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * `key` <CryptoKey>
  * Returns: <KeyObject>

Example: Converting a `CryptoKey` instance to a `KeyObject`:

    
    
    const { KeyObject } = await import('node:crypto');
    const { subtle } = globalThis.crypto;
    
    const key = await subtle.generateKey({
      name: 'HMAC',
      hash: 'SHA-256',
      length: 256,
    }, true, ['sign', 'verify']);
    
    const keyObject = KeyObject.from(key);
    console.log(keyObject.symmetricKeySize);
    // Prints: 32 (symmetric key size in bytes)const { KeyObject } = require('node:crypto');
    const { subtle } = globalThis.crypto;
    
    (async function() {
      const key = await subtle.generateKey({
        name: 'HMAC',
        hash: 'SHA-256',
        length: 256,
      }, true, ['sign', 'verify']);
    
      const keyObject = KeyObject.from(key);
      console.log(keyObject.symmetricKeySize);
      // Prints: 32 (symmetric key size in bytes)
    })();copy

#### `keyObject.asymmetricKeyDetails`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.9.0 | Expose `RSASSA-PSS-params` sequence parameters for RSA-PSS keys.  
v15.7.0 | Added in: v15.7.0  
  
  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `modulusLength`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Key size in bits (RSA, DSA).
    * `publicExponent`: [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) Public exponent (RSA).
    * `hashAlgorithm`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of the message digest (RSA-PSS).
    * `mgf1HashAlgorithm`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of the message digest used by MGF1 (RSA-PSS).
    * `saltLength`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Minimal salt length in bytes (RSA-PSS).
    * `divisorLength`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Size of `q` in bits (DSA).
    * `namedCurve`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of the curve (EC).

This property exists only on asymmetric keys. Depending on the type of the
key, this object contains information about the key. None of the information
obtained through this property can be used to uniquely identify a key or to
compromise the security of the key.

For RSA-PSS keys, if the key material contains a `RSASSA-PSS-params` sequence,
the `hashAlgorithm`, `mgf1HashAlgorithm`, and `saltLength` properties will be
set.

Other key details might be exposed via this API using additional attributes.

#### `keyObject.asymmetricKeyType`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.9.0, v12.17.0 | Added support for `'dh'`.  
v12.0.0 | Added support for `'rsa-pss'`.  
v12.0.0 | This property now returns `undefined` for KeyObject instances of unrecognized type instead of aborting.  
v12.0.0 | Added support for `'x25519'` and `'x448'`.  
v12.0.0 | Added support for `'ed25519'` and `'ed448'`.  
v11.6.0 | Added in: v11.6.0  
  
  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

For asymmetric keys, this property represents the type of the key. Supported
key types are:

  * `'rsa'` (OID 1.2.840.113549.1.1.1)
  * `'rsa-pss'` (OID 1.2.840.113549.1.1.10)
  * `'dsa'` (OID 1.2.840.10040.4.1)
  * `'ec'` (OID 1.2.840.10045.2.1)
  * `'x25519'` (OID 1.3.101.110)
  * `'x448'` (OID 1.3.101.111)
  * `'ed25519'` (OID 1.3.101.112)
  * `'ed448'` (OID 1.3.101.113)
  * `'dh'` (OID 1.2.840.113549.1.3.1)

This property is `undefined` for unrecognized `KeyObject` types and symmetric
keys.

#### `keyObject.equals(otherKeyObject)`#

Added in: v17.7.0, v16.15.0

  * `otherKeyObject`: <KeyObject> A `KeyObject` with which to compare `keyObject`.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` or `false` depending on whether the keys have exactly the same
type, value, and parameters. This method is not [constant
time](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timing_attack).

#### `keyObject.export([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.9.0 | Added support for `'jwk'` format.  
v11.6.0 | Added in: v11.6.0  
  
  * `options`: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

For symmetric keys, the following encoding options can be used:

  * `format`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'buffer'` (default) or `'jwk'`.

For public keys, the following encoding options can be used:

  * `type`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be one of `'pkcs1'` (RSA only) or `'spki'`.
  * `format`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'pem'`, `'der'`, or `'jwk'`.

For private keys, the following encoding options can be used:

  * `type`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be one of `'pkcs1'` (RSA only), `'pkcs8'` or `'sec1'` (EC only).
  * `format`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'pem'`, `'der'`, or `'jwk'`.
  * `cipher`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If specified, the private key will be encrypted with the given `cipher` and `passphrase` using PKCS#5 v2.0 password based encryption.
  * `passphrase`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> The passphrase to use for encryption, see `cipher`.

The result type depends on the selected encoding format, when PEM the result
is a string, when DER it will be a buffer containing the data encoded as DER,
when [JWK](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7517) it will be an object.

When [JWK](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7517) encoding format was selected,
all other encoding options are ignored.

PKCS#1, SEC1, and PKCS#8 type keys can be encrypted by using a combination of
the `cipher` and `format` options. The PKCS#8 `type` can be used with any
`format` to encrypt any key algorithm (RSA, EC, or DH) by specifying a
`cipher`. PKCS#1 and SEC1 can only be encrypted by specifying a `cipher` when
the PEM `format` is used. For maximum compatibility, use PKCS#8 for encrypted
private keys. Since PKCS#8 defines its own encryption mechanism, PEM-level
encryption is not supported when encrypting a PKCS#8 key. See [RFC
5208](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5208.txt) for PKCS#8 encryption and
[RFC 1421](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1421.txt) for PKCS#1 and SEC1
encryption.

#### `keyObject.symmetricKeySize`#

Added in: v11.6.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

For secret keys, this property represents the size of the key in bytes. This
property is `undefined` for asymmetric keys.

#### `keyObject.toCryptoKey(algorithm, extractable, keyUsages)`#

Added in: v23.0.0

  * `algorithm`: <AlgorithmIdentifier> | <RsaHashedImportParams> | <EcKeyImportParams> | <HmacImportParams>

  * `extractable`: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
  * `keyUsages`: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See Key usages.
  * Returns: <CryptoKey>

Converts a `KeyObject` instance to a `CryptoKey`.

#### `keyObject.type`#

Added in: v11.6.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Depending on the type of this `KeyObject`, this property is either `'secret'`
for secret (symmetric) keys, `'public'` for public (asymmetric) keys or
`'private'` for private (asymmetric) keys.

### Class: `Sign`#

Added in: v0.1.92

  * Extends: <stream.Writable>

The `Sign` class is a utility for generating signatures. It can be used in one
of two ways:

  * As a writable [stream](stream.html), where data to be signed is written and the `sign.sign()` method is used to generate and return the signature, or
  * Using the `sign.update()` and `sign.sign()` methods to produce the signature.

The `crypto.createSign()` method is used to create `Sign` instances. The
argument is the string name of the hash function to use. `Sign` objects are
not to be created directly using the `new` keyword.

Example: Using `Sign` and `Verify` objects as streams:

    
    
    const {
      generateKeyPairSync,
      createSign,
      createVerify,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const { privateKey, publicKey } = generateKeyPairSync('ec', {
      namedCurve: 'sect239k1',
    });
    
    const sign = createSign('SHA256');
    sign.write('some data to sign');
    sign.end();
    const signature = sign.sign(privateKey, 'hex');
    
    const verify = createVerify('SHA256');
    verify.write('some data to sign');
    verify.end();
    console.log(verify.verify(publicKey, signature, 'hex'));
    // Prints: trueconst {
      generateKeyPairSync,
      createSign,
      createVerify,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const { privateKey, publicKey } = generateKeyPairSync('ec', {
      namedCurve: 'sect239k1',
    });
    
    const sign = createSign('SHA256');
    sign.write('some data to sign');
    sign.end();
    const signature = sign.sign(privateKey, 'hex');
    
    const verify = createVerify('SHA256');
    verify.write('some data to sign');
    verify.end();
    console.log(verify.verify(publicKey, signature, 'hex'));
    // Prints: truecopy

Example: Using the `sign.update()` and `verify.update()` methods:

    
    
    const {
      generateKeyPairSync,
      createSign,
      createVerify,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const { privateKey, publicKey } = generateKeyPairSync('rsa', {
      modulusLength: 2048,
    });
    
    const sign = createSign('SHA256');
    sign.update('some data to sign');
    sign.end();
    const signature = sign.sign(privateKey);
    
    const verify = createVerify('SHA256');
    verify.update('some data to sign');
    verify.end();
    console.log(verify.verify(publicKey, signature));
    // Prints: trueconst {
      generateKeyPairSync,
      createSign,
      createVerify,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const { privateKey, publicKey } = generateKeyPairSync('rsa', {
      modulusLength: 2048,
    });
    
    const sign = createSign('SHA256');
    sign.update('some data to sign');
    sign.end();
    const signature = sign.sign(privateKey);
    
    const verify = createVerify('SHA256');
    verify.update('some data to sign');
    verify.end();
    console.log(verify.verify(publicKey, signature));
    // Prints: truecopy

#### `sign.sign(privateKey[, outputEncoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The privateKey can also be an ArrayBuffer and CryptoKey.  
v13.2.0, v12.16.0 | This function now supports IEEE-P1363 DSA and ECDSA signatures.  
v12.0.0 | This function now supports RSA-PSS keys.  
v11.6.0 | This function now supports key objects.  
v8.0.0 | Support for RSASSA-PSS and additional options was added.  
v0.1.92 | Added in: v0.1.92  
  
  * `privateKey` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <KeyObject> | <CryptoKey>
    * `dsaEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `padding` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `saltLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `outputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the return value.
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Calculates the signature on all the data passed through using either
`sign.update()` or `sign.write()`.

If `privateKey` is not a `KeyObject`, this function behaves as if `privateKey`
had been passed to `crypto.createPrivateKey()`. If it is an object, the
following additional properties can be passed:

  * `dsaEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) For DSA and ECDSA, this option specifies the format of the generated signature. It can be one of the following:

    * `'der'` (default): DER-encoded ASN.1 signature structure encoding `(r, s)`.
    * `'ieee-p1363'`: Signature format `r || s` as proposed in IEEE-P1363.
  * `padding` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Optional padding value for RSA, one of the following:

    * `crypto.constants.RSA_PKCS1_PADDING` (default)
    * `crypto.constants.RSA_PKCS1_PSS_PADDING`

`RSA_PKCS1_PSS_PADDING` will use MGF1 with the same hash function used to sign
the message as specified in section 3.1 of [RFC 4055](https://www.rfc-
editor.org/rfc/rfc4055.txt), unless an MGF1 hash function has been specified
as part of the key in compliance with section 3.3 of [RFC
4055](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4055.txt).

  * `saltLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Salt length for when padding is `RSA_PKCS1_PSS_PADDING`. The special value `crypto.constants.RSA_PSS_SALTLEN_DIGEST` sets the salt length to the digest size, `crypto.constants.RSA_PSS_SALTLEN_MAX_SIGN` (default) sets it to the maximum permissible value.

If `outputEncoding` is provided a string is returned; otherwise a
[`Buffer`](buffer.html) is returned.

The `Sign` object can not be again used after `sign.sign()` method has been
called. Multiple calls to `sign.sign()` will result in an error being thrown.

#### `sign.update(data[, inputEncoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.0.0 | The default `inputEncoding` changed from `binary` to `utf8`.  
v0.1.92 | Added in: v0.1.92  
  
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `inputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `data` string.

Updates the `Sign` content with the given `data`, the encoding of which is
given in `inputEncoding`. If `encoding` is not provided, and the `data` is a
string, an encoding of `'utf8'` is enforced. If `data` is a
[`Buffer`](buffer.html), `TypedArray`, or `DataView`, then `inputEncoding` is
ignored.

This can be called many times with new data as it is streamed.

### Class: `Verify`#

Added in: v0.1.92

  * Extends: <stream.Writable>

The `Verify` class is a utility for verifying signatures. It can be used in
one of two ways:

  * As a writable [stream](stream.html) where written data is used to validate against the supplied signature, or
  * Using the `verify.update()` and `verify.verify()` methods to verify the signature.

The `crypto.createVerify()` method is used to create `Verify` instances.
`Verify` objects are not to be created directly using the `new` keyword.

See `Sign` for examples.

#### `verify.update(data[, inputEncoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.0.0 | The default `inputEncoding` changed from `binary` to `utf8`.  
v0.1.92 | Added in: v0.1.92  
  
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `inputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `data` string.

Updates the `Verify` content with the given `data`, the encoding of which is
given in `inputEncoding`. If `inputEncoding` is not provided, and the `data`
is a string, an encoding of `'utf8'` is enforced. If `data` is a
[`Buffer`](buffer.html), `TypedArray`, or `DataView`, then `inputEncoding` is
ignored.

This can be called many times with new data as it is streamed.

#### `verify.verify(object, signature[, signatureEncoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The object can also be an ArrayBuffer and CryptoKey.  
v13.2.0, v12.16.0 | This function now supports IEEE-P1363 DSA and ECDSA signatures.  
v12.0.0 | This function now supports RSA-PSS keys.  
v11.7.0 | The key can now be a private key.  
v8.0.0 | Support for RSASSA-PSS and additional options was added.  
v0.1.92 | Added in: v0.1.92  
  
  * `object` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <KeyObject> | <CryptoKey>
    * `dsaEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `padding` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `saltLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `signature` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `signatureEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `signature` string.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` or `false` depending on the validity of the signature for the data and public key.

Verifies the provided data using the given `object` and `signature`.

If `object` is not a `KeyObject`, this function behaves as if `object` had
been passed to `crypto.createPublicKey()`. If it is an object, the following
additional properties can be passed:

  * `dsaEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) For DSA and ECDSA, this option specifies the format of the signature. It can be one of the following:

    * `'der'` (default): DER-encoded ASN.1 signature structure encoding `(r, s)`.
    * `'ieee-p1363'`: Signature format `r || s` as proposed in IEEE-P1363.
  * `padding` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Optional padding value for RSA, one of the following:

    * `crypto.constants.RSA_PKCS1_PADDING` (default)
    * `crypto.constants.RSA_PKCS1_PSS_PADDING`

`RSA_PKCS1_PSS_PADDING` will use MGF1 with the same hash function used to
verify the message as specified in section 3.1 of [RFC 4055](https://www.rfc-
editor.org/rfc/rfc4055.txt), unless an MGF1 hash function has been specified
as part of the key in compliance with section 3.3 of [RFC
4055](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4055.txt).

  * `saltLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Salt length for when padding is `RSA_PKCS1_PSS_PADDING`. The special value `crypto.constants.RSA_PSS_SALTLEN_DIGEST` sets the salt length to the digest size, `crypto.constants.RSA_PSS_SALTLEN_AUTO` (default) causes it to be determined automatically.

The `signature` argument is the previously calculated signature for the data,
in the `signatureEncoding`. If a `signatureEncoding` is specified, the
`signature` is expected to be a string; otherwise `signature` is expected to
be a [`Buffer`](buffer.html), `TypedArray`, or `DataView`.

The `verify` object can not be used again after `verify.verify()` has been
called. Multiple calls to `verify.verify()` will result in an error being
thrown.

Because public keys can be derived from private keys, a private key may be
passed instead of a public key.

### Class: `X509Certificate`#

Added in: v15.6.0

Encapsulates an X509 certificate and provides read-only access to its
information.

    
    
    const { X509Certificate } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const x509 = new X509Certificate('{... pem encoded cert ...}');
    
    console.log(x509.subject);const { X509Certificate } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const x509 = new X509Certificate('{... pem encoded cert ...}');
    
    console.log(x509.subject);copy

#### `new X509Certificate(buffer)`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * `buffer` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | <Buffer> | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) A PEM or DER encoded X509 Certificate.

#### `x509.ca`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * Type: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Will be `true` if this is a Certificate Authority (CA) certificate.

#### `x509.checkEmail(email[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | The subject option now defaults to `'default'`.  
v17.5.0, v16.15.0 | The subject option can now be set to `'default'`.  
v17.5.0, v16.14.1 | The `wildcards`, `partialWildcards`, `multiLabelWildcards`, and `singleLabelSubdomains` options have been removed since they had no effect.  
v15.6.0 | Added in: v15.6.0  
  
  * `email` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `subject` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) `'default'`, `'always'`, or `'never'`. **Default:** `'default'`.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Returns `email` if the certificate matches, `undefined` if it does not.

Checks whether the certificate matches the given email address.

If the `'subject'` option is undefined or set to `'default'`, the certificate
subject is only considered if the subject alternative name extension either
does not exist or does not contain any email addresses.

If the `'subject'` option is set to `'always'` and if the subject alternative
name extension either does not exist or does not contain a matching email
address, the certificate subject is considered.

If the `'subject'` option is set to `'never'`, the certificate subject is
never considered, even if the certificate contains no subject alternative
names.

#### `x509.checkHost(name[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | The subject option now defaults to `'default'`.  
v17.5.0, v16.15.0 | The subject option can now be set to `'default'`.  
v15.6.0 | Added in: v15.6.0  
  
  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `subject` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) `'default'`, `'always'`, or `'never'`. **Default:** `'default'`.
    * `wildcards` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `true`.
    * `partialWildcards` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `true`.
    * `multiLabelWildcards` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`.
    * `singleLabelSubdomains` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Returns a subject name that matches `name`, or `undefined` if no subject name matches `name`.

Checks whether the certificate matches the given host name.

If the certificate matches the given host name, the matching subject name is
returned. The returned name might be an exact match (e.g., `foo.example.com`)
or it might contain wildcards (e.g., `*.example.com`). Because host name
comparisons are case-insensitive, the returned subject name might also differ
from the given `name` in capitalization.

If the `'subject'` option is undefined or set to `'default'`, the certificate
subject is only considered if the subject alternative name extension either
does not exist or does not contain any DNS names. This behavior is consistent
with [RFC 2818](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2818.txt) ("HTTP Over TLS").

If the `'subject'` option is set to `'always'` and if the subject alternative
name extension either does not exist or does not contain a matching DNS name,
the certificate subject is considered.

If the `'subject'` option is set to `'never'`, the certificate subject is
never considered, even if the certificate contains no subject alternative
names.

#### `x509.checkIP(ip)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.5.0, v16.14.1 | The `options` argument has been removed since it had no effect.  
v15.6.0 | Added in: v15.6.0  
  
  * `ip` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Returns `ip` if the certificate matches, `undefined` if it does not.

Checks whether the certificate matches the given IP address (IPv4 or IPv6).

Only [RFC 5280](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5280.txt) `iPAddress`
subject alternative names are considered, and they must match the given `ip`
address exactly. Other subject alternative names as well as the subject field
of the certificate are ignored.

#### `x509.checkIssued(otherCert)`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * `otherCert` <X509Certificate>
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Checks whether this certificate was issued by the given `otherCert`.

#### `x509.checkPrivateKey(privateKey)`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * `privateKey` <KeyObject> A private key.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Checks whether the public key for this certificate is consistent with the
given private key.

#### `x509.extKeyUsage`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * Type: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

An array detailing the key extended usages for this certificate.

#### `x509.fingerprint`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The SHA-1 fingerprint of this certificate.

Because SHA-1 is cryptographically broken and because the security of SHA-1 is
significantly worse than that of algorithms that are commonly used to sign
certificates, consider using `x509.fingerprint256` instead.

#### `x509.fingerprint256`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The SHA-256 fingerprint of this certificate.

#### `x509.fingerprint512`#

Added in: v17.2.0, v16.14.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The SHA-512 fingerprint of this certificate.

Because computing the SHA-256 fingerprint is usually faster and because it is
only half the size of the SHA-512 fingerprint, `x509.fingerprint256` may be a
better choice. While SHA-512 presumably provides a higher level of security in
general, the security of SHA-256 matches that of most algorithms that are
commonly used to sign certificates.

#### `x509.infoAccess`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.3.1, v16.13.2 | Parts of this string may be encoded as JSON string literals in response to CVE-2021-44532.  
v15.6.0 | Added in: v15.6.0  
  
  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

A textual representation of the certificate's authority information access
extension.

This is a line feed separated list of access descriptions. Each line begins
with the access method and the kind of the access location, followed by a
colon and the value associated with the access location.

After the prefix denoting the access method and the kind of the access
location, the remainder of each line might be enclosed in quotes to indicate
that the value is a JSON string literal. For backward compatibility, Node.js
only uses JSON string literals within this property when necessary to avoid
ambiguity. Third-party code should be prepared to handle both possible entry
formats.

#### `x509.issuer`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The issuer identification included in this certificate.

#### `x509.issuerCertificate`#

Added in: v15.9.0

  * Type: <X509Certificate>

The issuer certificate or `undefined` if the issuer certificate is not
available.

#### `x509.publicKey`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * Type: <KeyObject>

The public key <KeyObject> for this certificate.

#### `x509.raw`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * Type: <Buffer>

A `Buffer` containing the DER encoding of this certificate.

#### `x509.serialNumber`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The serial number of this certificate.

Serial numbers are assigned by certificate authorities and do not uniquely
identify certificates. Consider using `x509.fingerprint256` as a unique
identifier instead.

#### `x509.subject`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The complete subject of this certificate.

#### `x509.subjectAltName`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.3.1, v16.13.2 | Parts of this string may be encoded as JSON string literals in response to CVE-2021-44532.  
v15.6.0 | Added in: v15.6.0  
  
  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The subject alternative name specified for this certificate.

This is a comma-separated list of subject alternative names. Each entry begins
with a string identifying the kind of the subject alternative name followed by
a colon and the value associated with the entry.

Earlier versions of Node.js incorrectly assumed that it is safe to split this
property at the two-character sequence `', '` (see
[CVE-2021-44532](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-
bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2021-44532)). However, both malicious and legitimate
certificates can contain subject alternative names that include this sequence
when represented as a string.

After the prefix denoting the type of the entry, the remainder of each entry
might be enclosed in quotes to indicate that the value is a JSON string
literal. For backward compatibility, Node.js only uses JSON string literals
within this property when necessary to avoid ambiguity. Third-party code
should be prepared to handle both possible entry formats.

#### `x509.toJSON()`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

There is no standard JSON encoding for X509 certificates. The `toJSON()`
method returns a string containing the PEM encoded certificate.

#### `x509.toLegacyObject()`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * Type: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns information about this certificate using the legacy certificate object
encoding.

#### `x509.toString()`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the PEM-encoded certificate.

#### `x509.validFrom`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The date/time from which this certificate is valid.

#### `x509.validFromDate`#

Added in: v23.0.0

  * Type: [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)

The date/time from which this certificate is valid, encapsulated in a `Date`
object.

#### `x509.validTo`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The date/time until which this certificate is valid.

#### `x509.validToDate`#

Added in: v23.0.0

  * Type: [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)

The date/time until which this certificate is valid, encapsulated in a `Date`
object.

#### `x509.verify(publicKey)`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * `publicKey` <KeyObject> A public key.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Verifies that this certificate was signed by the given public key. Does not
perform any other validation checks on the certificate.

### `node:crypto` module methods and properties#

#### `crypto.checkPrime(candidate[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v15.8.0 | Added in: v15.8.0  
  
  * `candidate` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | <Buffer> | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) A possible prime encoded as a sequence of big endian octets of arbitrary length.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `checks` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of Miller-Rabin probabilistic primality iterations to perform. When the value is `0` (zero), a number of checks is used that yields a false positive rate of at most 2-64 for random input. Care must be used when selecting a number of checks. Refer to the OpenSSL documentation for the [`BN_is_prime_ex`](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man3/BN_is_prime_ex.html) function `nchecks` options for more details. **Default:** `0`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) Set to an [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) object if an error occurred during check.
    * `result` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the candidate is a prime with an error probability less than `0.25 ** options.checks`.

Checks the primality of the `candidate`.

#### `crypto.checkPrimeSync(candidate[, options])`#

Added in: v15.8.0

  * `candidate` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | <Buffer> | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) A possible prime encoded as a sequence of big endian octets of arbitrary length.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `checks` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of Miller-Rabin probabilistic primality iterations to perform. When the value is `0` (zero), a number of checks is used that yields a false positive rate of at most 2-64 for random input. Care must be used when selecting a number of checks. Refer to the OpenSSL documentation for the [`BN_is_prime_ex`](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man3/BN_is_prime_ex.html) function `nchecks` options for more details. **Default:** `0`
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the candidate is a prime with an error probability less than `0.25 ** options.checks`.

Checks the primality of the `candidate`.

#### `crypto.constants`#

Added in: v6.3.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

An object containing commonly used constants for crypto and security related
operations. The specific constants currently defined are described in Crypto
constants.

#### `crypto.createCipheriv(algorithm, key, iv[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.9.0, v16.17.0 | The `authTagLength` option is now optional when using the `chacha20-poly1305` cipher and defaults to 16 bytes.  
v15.0.0 | The password and iv arguments can be an ArrayBuffer and are each limited to a maximum of 2 ** 31 - 1 bytes.  
v11.6.0 | The `key` argument can now be a `KeyObject`.  
v11.2.0, v10.17.0 | The cipher `chacha20-poly1305` (the IETF variant of ChaCha20-Poly1305) is now supported.  
v10.10.0 | Ciphers in OCB mode are now supported.  
v10.2.0 | The `authTagLength` option can now be used to produce shorter authentication tags in GCM mode and defaults to 16 bytes.  
v9.9.0 | The `iv` parameter may now be `null` for ciphers which do not need an initialization vector.  
v0.1.94 | Added in: v0.1.94  
  
  * `algorithm` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `key` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <KeyObject> | <CryptoKey>
  * `iv` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) `stream.transform` options
  * Returns: <Cipher>

Creates and returns a `Cipher` object, with the given `algorithm`, `key` and
initialization vector (`iv`).

The `options` argument controls stream behavior and is optional except when a
cipher in CCM or OCB mode (e.g. `'aes-128-ccm'`) is used. In that case, the
`authTagLength` option is required and specifies the length of the
authentication tag in bytes, see CCM mode. In GCM mode, the `authTagLength`
option is not required but can be used to set the length of the authentication
tag that will be returned by `getAuthTag()` and defaults to 16 bytes. For
`chacha20-poly1305`, the `authTagLength` option defaults to 16 bytes.

The `algorithm` is dependent on OpenSSL, examples are `'aes192'`, etc. On
recent OpenSSL releases, `openssl list -cipher-algorithms` will display the
available cipher algorithms.

The `key` is the raw key used by the `algorithm` and `iv` is an
[initialization vector](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Initialization_vector).
Both arguments must be `'utf8'` encoded strings, [Buffers](buffer.html),
`TypedArray`, or `DataView`s. The `key` may optionally be a `KeyObject` of
type `secret`. If the cipher does not need an initialization vector, `iv` may
be `null`.

When passing strings for `key` or `iv`, please consider caveats when using
strings as inputs to cryptographic APIs.

Initialization vectors should be unpredictable and unique; ideally, they will
be cryptographically random. They do not have to be secret: IVs are typically
just added to ciphertext messages unencrypted. It may sound contradictory that
something has to be unpredictable and unique, but does not have to be secret;
remember that an attacker must not be able to predict ahead of time what a
given IV will be.

#### `crypto.createDecipheriv(algorithm, key, iv[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.9.0, v16.17.0 | The `authTagLength` option is now optional when using the `chacha20-poly1305` cipher and defaults to 16 bytes.  
v11.6.0 | The `key` argument can now be a `KeyObject`.  
v11.2.0, v10.17.0 | The cipher `chacha20-poly1305` (the IETF variant of ChaCha20-Poly1305) is now supported.  
v10.10.0 | Ciphers in OCB mode are now supported.  
v10.2.0 | The `authTagLength` option can now be used to restrict accepted GCM authentication tag lengths.  
v9.9.0 | The `iv` parameter may now be `null` for ciphers which do not need an initialization vector.  
v0.1.94 | Added in: v0.1.94  
  
  * `algorithm` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `key` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <KeyObject> | <CryptoKey>
  * `iv` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) `stream.transform` options
  * Returns: <Decipher>

Creates and returns a `Decipher` object that uses the given `algorithm`, `key`
and initialization vector (`iv`).

The `options` argument controls stream behavior and is optional except when a
cipher in CCM or OCB mode (e.g. `'aes-128-ccm'`) is used. In that case, the
`authTagLength` option is required and specifies the length of the
authentication tag in bytes, see CCM mode. For AES-GCM and
`chacha20-poly1305`, the `authTagLength` option defaults to 16 bytes and must
be set to a different value if a different length is used.

The `algorithm` is dependent on OpenSSL, examples are `'aes192'`, etc. On
recent OpenSSL releases, `openssl list -cipher-algorithms` will display the
available cipher algorithms.

The `key` is the raw key used by the `algorithm` and `iv` is an
[initialization vector](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Initialization_vector).
Both arguments must be `'utf8'` encoded strings, [Buffers](buffer.html),
`TypedArray`, or `DataView`s. The `key` may optionally be a `KeyObject` of
type `secret`. If the cipher does not need an initialization vector, `iv` may
be `null`.

When passing strings for `key` or `iv`, please consider caveats when using
strings as inputs to cryptographic APIs.

Initialization vectors should be unpredictable and unique; ideally, they will
be cryptographically random. They do not have to be secret: IVs are typically
just added to ciphertext messages unencrypted. It may sound contradictory that
something has to be unpredictable and unique, but does not have to be secret;
remember that an attacker must not be able to predict ahead of time what a
given IV will be.

#### `crypto.createDiffieHellman(prime[, primeEncoding][, generator][,
generatorEncoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | The `prime` argument can be any `TypedArray` or `DataView` now.  
v8.0.0 | The `prime` argument can be a `Uint8Array` now.  
v6.0.0 | The default for the encoding parameters changed from `binary` to `utf8`.  
v0.11.12 | Added in: v0.11.12  
  
  * `prime` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `primeEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `prime` string.
  * `generator` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) **Default:** `2`
  * `generatorEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding of the `generator` string.
  * Returns: <DiffieHellman>

Creates a `DiffieHellman` key exchange object using the supplied `prime` and
an optional specific `generator`.

The `generator` argument can be a number, string, or [`Buffer`](buffer.html).
If `generator` is not specified, the value `2` is used.

If `primeEncoding` is specified, `prime` is expected to be a string; otherwise
a [`Buffer`](buffer.html), `TypedArray`, or `DataView` is expected.

If `generatorEncoding` is specified, `generator` is expected to be a string;
otherwise a number, [`Buffer`](buffer.html), `TypedArray`, or `DataView` is
expected.

#### `crypto.createDiffieHellman(primeLength[, generator])`#

Added in: v0.5.0

  * `primeLength` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `generator` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `2`
  * Returns: <DiffieHellman>

Creates a `DiffieHellman` key exchange object and generates a prime of
`primeLength` bits using an optional specific numeric `generator`. If
`generator` is not specified, the value `2` is used.

#### `crypto.createDiffieHellmanGroup(name)`#

Added in: v0.9.3

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: <DiffieHellmanGroup>

An alias for `crypto.getDiffieHellman()`

#### `crypto.createECDH(curveName)`#

Added in: v0.11.14

  * `curveName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: <ECDH>

Creates an Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (`ECDH`) key exchange object using a
predefined curve specified by the `curveName` string. Use `crypto.getCurves()`
to obtain a list of available curve names. On recent OpenSSL releases,
`openssl ecparam -list_curves` will also display the name and description of
each available elliptic curve.

#### `crypto.createHash(algorithm[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.8.0 | The `outputLength` option was added for XOF hash functions.  
v0.1.92 | Added in: v0.1.92  
  
  * `algorithm` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) `stream.transform` options
  * Returns: <Hash>

Creates and returns a `Hash` object that can be used to generate hash digests
using the given `algorithm`. Optional `options` argument controls stream
behavior. For XOF hash functions such as `'shake256'`, the `outputLength`
option can be used to specify the desired output length in bytes.

The `algorithm` is dependent on the available algorithms supported by the
version of OpenSSL on the platform. Examples are `'sha256'`, `'sha512'`, etc.
On recent releases of OpenSSL, `openssl list -digest-algorithms` will display
the available digest algorithms.

Example: generating the sha256 sum of a file

    
    
    import {
      createReadStream,
    } from 'node:fs';
    import { argv } from 'node:process';
    const {
      createHash,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const filename = argv[2];
    
    const hash = createHash('sha256');
    
    const input = createReadStream(filename);
    input.on('readable', () => {
      // Only one element is going to be produced by the
      // hash stream.
      const data = input.read();
      if (data)
        hash.update(data);
      else {
        console.log(`${hash.digest('hex')} ${filename}`);
      }
    });const {
      createReadStream,
    } = require('node:fs');
    const {
      createHash,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    const { argv } = require('node:process');
    
    const filename = argv[2];
    
    const hash = createHash('sha256');
    
    const input = createReadStream(filename);
    input.on('readable', () => {
      // Only one element is going to be produced by the
      // hash stream.
      const data = input.read();
      if (data)
        hash.update(data);
      else {
        console.log(`${hash.digest('hex')} ${filename}`);
      }
    });copy

#### `crypto.createHmac(algorithm, key[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The key can also be an ArrayBuffer or CryptoKey. The encoding option was added. The key cannot contain more than 2 ** 32 - 1 bytes.  
v11.6.0 | The `key` argument can now be a `KeyObject`.  
v0.1.94 | Added in: v0.1.94  
  
  * `algorithm` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `key` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <KeyObject> | <CryptoKey>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) `stream.transform` options
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The string encoding to use when `key` is a string.
  * Returns: <Hmac>

Creates and returns an `Hmac` object that uses the given `algorithm` and
`key`. Optional `options` argument controls stream behavior.

The `algorithm` is dependent on the available algorithms supported by the
version of OpenSSL on the platform. Examples are `'sha256'`, `'sha512'`, etc.
On recent releases of OpenSSL, `openssl list -digest-algorithms` will display
the available digest algorithms.

The `key` is the HMAC key used to generate the cryptographic HMAC hash. If it
is a `KeyObject`, its type must be `secret`. If it is a string, please
consider caveats when using strings as inputs to cryptographic APIs. If it was
obtained from a cryptographically secure source of entropy, such as
`crypto.randomBytes()` or `crypto.generateKey()`, its length should not exceed
the block size of `algorithm` (e.g., 512 bits for SHA-256).

Example: generating the sha256 HMAC of a file

    
    
    import {
      createReadStream,
    } from 'node:fs';
    import { argv } from 'node:process';
    const {
      createHmac,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const filename = argv[2];
    
    const hmac = createHmac('sha256', 'a secret');
    
    const input = createReadStream(filename);
    input.on('readable', () => {
      // Only one element is going to be produced by the
      // hash stream.
      const data = input.read();
      if (data)
        hmac.update(data);
      else {
        console.log(`${hmac.digest('hex')} ${filename}`);
      }
    });const {
      createReadStream,
    } = require('node:fs');
    const {
      createHmac,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    const { argv } = require('node:process');
    
    const filename = argv[2];
    
    const hmac = createHmac('sha256', 'a secret');
    
    const input = createReadStream(filename);
    input.on('readable', () => {
      // Only one element is going to be produced by the
      // hash stream.
      const data = input.read();
      if (data)
        hmac.update(data);
      else {
        console.log(`${hmac.digest('hex')} ${filename}`);
      }
    });copy

#### `crypto.createPrivateKey(key)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.12.0 | The key can also be a JWK object.  
v15.0.0 | The key can also be an ArrayBuffer. The encoding option was added. The key cannot contain more than 2 ** 32 - 1 bytes.  
v11.6.0 | Added in: v11.6.0  
  
  * `key` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
    * `key`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The key material, either in PEM, DER, or JWK format.
    * `format`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'pem'`, `'der'`, or '`'jwk'`. **Default:** `'pem'`.
    * `type`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'pkcs1'`, `'pkcs8'` or `'sec1'`. This option is required only if the `format` is `'der'` and ignored otherwise.
    * `passphrase`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> The passphrase to use for decryption.
    * `encoding`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The string encoding to use when `key` is a string.
  * Returns: <KeyObject>

Creates and returns a new key object containing a private key. If `key` is a
string or `Buffer`, `format` is assumed to be `'pem'`; otherwise, `key` must
be an object with the properties described above.

If the private key is encrypted, a `passphrase` must be specified. The length
of the passphrase is limited to 1024 bytes.

#### `crypto.createPublicKey(key)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.12.0 | The key can also be a JWK object.  
v15.0.0 | The key can also be an ArrayBuffer. The encoding option was added. The key cannot contain more than 2 ** 32 - 1 bytes.  
v11.13.0 | The `key` argument can now be a `KeyObject` with type `private`.  
v11.7.0 | The `key` argument can now be a private key.  
v11.6.0 | Added in: v11.6.0  
  
  * `key` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
    * `key`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The key material, either in PEM, DER, or JWK format.
    * `format`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'pem'`, `'der'`, or `'jwk'`. **Default:** `'pem'`.
    * `type`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'pkcs1'` or `'spki'`. This option is required only if the `format` is `'der'` and ignored otherwise.
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The string encoding to use when `key` is a string.
  * Returns: <KeyObject>

Creates and returns a new key object containing a public key. If `key` is a
string or `Buffer`, `format` is assumed to be `'pem'`; if `key` is a
`KeyObject` with type `'private'`, the public key is derived from the given
private key; otherwise, `key` must be an object with the properties described
above.

If the format is `'pem'`, the `'key'` may also be an X.509 certificate.

Because public keys can be derived from private keys, a private key may be
passed instead of a public key. In that case, this function behaves as if
`crypto.createPrivateKey()` had been called, except that the type of the
returned `KeyObject` will be `'public'` and that the private key cannot be
extracted from the returned `KeyObject`. Similarly, if a `KeyObject` with type
`'private'` is given, a new `KeyObject` with type `'public'` will be returned
and it will be impossible to extract the private key from the returned object.

#### `crypto.createSecretKey(key[, encoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.8.0, v16.18.0 | The key can now be zero-length.  
v15.0.0 | The key can also be an ArrayBuffer or string. The encoding argument was added. The key cannot contain more than 2 ** 32 - 1 bytes.  
v11.6.0 | Added in: v11.6.0  
  
  * `key` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The string encoding when `key` is a string.
  * Returns: <KeyObject>

Creates and returns a new key object containing a secret key for symmetric
encryption or `Hmac`.

#### `crypto.createSign(algorithm[, options])`#

Added in: v0.1.92

  * `algorithm` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) `stream.Writable` options
  * Returns: <Sign>

Creates and returns a `Sign` object that uses the given `algorithm`. Use
`crypto.getHashes()` to obtain the names of the available digest algorithms.
Optional `options` argument controls the `stream.Writable` behavior.

In some cases, a `Sign` instance can be created using the name of a signature
algorithm, such as `'RSA-SHA256'`, instead of a digest algorithm. This will
use the corresponding digest algorithm. This does not work for all signature
algorithms, such as `'ecdsa-with-SHA256'`, so it is best to always use digest
algorithm names.

#### `crypto.createVerify(algorithm[, options])`#

Added in: v0.1.92

  * `algorithm` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) `stream.Writable` options
  * Returns: <Verify>

Creates and returns a `Verify` object that uses the given algorithm. Use
`crypto.getHashes()` to obtain an array of names of the available signing
algorithms. Optional `options` argument controls the `stream.Writable`
behavior.

In some cases, a `Verify` instance can be created using the name of a
signature algorithm, such as `'RSA-SHA256'`, instead of a digest algorithm.
This will use the corresponding digest algorithm. This does not work for all
signature algorithms, such as `'ecdsa-with-SHA256'`, so it is best to always
use digest algorithm names.

#### `crypto.diffieHellman(options)`#

Added in: v13.9.0, v12.17.0

  * `options`: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `privateKey`: <KeyObject>
    * `publicKey`: <KeyObject>
  * Returns: <Buffer>

Computes the Diffie-Hellman secret based on a `privateKey` and a `publicKey`.
Both keys must have the same `asymmetricKeyType`, which must be one of `'dh'`
(for Diffie-Hellman), `'ec'`, `'x448'`, or `'x25519'` (for ECDH).

#### `crypto.fips`#

Added in: v6.0.0Deprecated since: v10.0.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated

Property for checking and controlling whether a FIPS compliant crypto provider
is currently in use. Setting to true requires a FIPS build of Node.js.

This property is deprecated. Please use `crypto.setFips()` and
`crypto.getFips()` instead.

#### `crypto.generateKey(type, options, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v15.0.0 | Added in: v15.0.0  
  
  * `type`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The intended use of the generated secret key. Currently accepted values are `'hmac'` and `'aes'`.
  * `options`: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `length`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The bit length of the key to generate. This must be a value greater than 0. 
      * If `type` is `'hmac'`, the minimum is 8, and the maximum length is 231-1. If the value is not a multiple of 8, the generated key will be truncated to `Math.floor(length / 8)`.
      * If `type` is `'aes'`, the length must be one of `128`, `192`, or `256`.
  * `callback`: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err`: [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `key`: <KeyObject>

Asynchronously generates a new random secret key of the given `length`. The
`type` will determine which validations will be performed on the `length`.

    
    
    const {
      generateKey,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    generateKey('hmac', { length: 512 }, (err, key) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(key.export().toString('hex'));  // 46e..........620
    });const {
      generateKey,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    generateKey('hmac', { length: 512 }, (err, key) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(key.export().toString('hex'));  // 46e..........620
    });copy

The size of a generated HMAC key should not exceed the block size of the
underlying hash function. See `crypto.createHmac()` for more information.

#### `crypto.generateKeyPair(type, options, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v16.10.0 | Add ability to define `RSASSA-PSS-params` sequence parameters for RSA-PSS keys pairs.  
v13.9.0, v12.17.0 | Add support for Diffie-Hellman.  
v12.0.0 | Add support for RSA-PSS key pairs.  
v12.0.0 | Add ability to generate X25519 and X448 key pairs.  
v12.0.0 | Add ability to generate Ed25519 and Ed448 key pairs.  
v11.6.0 | The `generateKeyPair` and `generateKeyPairSync` functions now produce key objects if no encoding was specified.  
v10.12.0 | Added in: v10.12.0  
  
  * `type`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'rsa'`, `'rsa-pss'`, `'dsa'`, `'ec'`, `'ed25519'`, `'ed448'`, `'x25519'`, `'x448'`, or `'dh'`.
  * `options`: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `modulusLength`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Key size in bits (RSA, DSA).
    * `publicExponent`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Public exponent (RSA). **Default:** `0x10001`.
    * `hashAlgorithm`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of the message digest (RSA-PSS).
    * `mgf1HashAlgorithm`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of the message digest used by MGF1 (RSA-PSS).
    * `saltLength`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Minimal salt length in bytes (RSA-PSS).
    * `divisorLength`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Size of `q` in bits (DSA).
    * `namedCurve`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of the curve to use (EC).
    * `prime`: <Buffer> The prime parameter (DH).
    * `primeLength`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Prime length in bits (DH).
    * `generator`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Custom generator (DH). **Default:** `2`.
    * `groupName`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Diffie-Hellman group name (DH). See `crypto.getDiffieHellman()`.
    * `paramEncoding`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'named'` or `'explicit'` (EC). **Default:** `'named'`.
    * `publicKeyEncoding`: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) See `keyObject.export()`.
    * `privateKeyEncoding`: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) See `keyObject.export()`.
  * `callback`: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err`: [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `publicKey`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <KeyObject>
    * `privateKey`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <KeyObject>

Generates a new asymmetric key pair of the given `type`. RSA, RSA-PSS, DSA,
EC, Ed25519, Ed448, X25519, X448, and DH are currently supported.

If a `publicKeyEncoding` or `privateKeyEncoding` was specified, this function
behaves as if `keyObject.export()` had been called on its result. Otherwise,
the respective part of the key is returned as a `KeyObject`.

It is recommended to encode public keys as `'spki'` and private keys as
`'pkcs8'` with encryption for long-term storage:

    
    
    const {
      generateKeyPair,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    generateKeyPair('rsa', {
      modulusLength: 4096,
      publicKeyEncoding: {
        type: 'spki',
        format: 'pem',
      },
      privateKeyEncoding: {
        type: 'pkcs8',
        format: 'pem',
        cipher: 'aes-256-cbc',
        passphrase: 'top secret',
      },
    }, (err, publicKey, privateKey) => {
      // Handle errors and use the generated key pair.
    });const {
      generateKeyPair,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    generateKeyPair('rsa', {
      modulusLength: 4096,
      publicKeyEncoding: {
        type: 'spki',
        format: 'pem',
      },
      privateKeyEncoding: {
        type: 'pkcs8',
        format: 'pem',
        cipher: 'aes-256-cbc',
        passphrase: 'top secret',
      },
    }, (err, publicKey, privateKey) => {
      // Handle errors and use the generated key pair.
    });copy

On completion, `callback` will be called with `err` set to `undefined` and
`publicKey` / `privateKey` representing the generated key pair.

If this method is invoked as its `util.promisify()`ed version, it returns a
`Promise` for an `Object` with `publicKey` and `privateKey` properties.

#### `crypto.generateKeyPairSync(type, options)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.10.0 | Add ability to define `RSASSA-PSS-params` sequence parameters for RSA-PSS keys pairs.  
v13.9.0, v12.17.0 | Add support for Diffie-Hellman.  
v12.0.0 | Add support for RSA-PSS key pairs.  
v12.0.0 | Add ability to generate X25519 and X448 key pairs.  
v12.0.0 | Add ability to generate Ed25519 and Ed448 key pairs.  
v11.6.0 | The `generateKeyPair` and `generateKeyPairSync` functions now produce key objects if no encoding was specified.  
v10.12.0 | Added in: v10.12.0  
  
  * `type`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'rsa'`, `'rsa-pss'`, `'dsa'`, `'ec'`, `'ed25519'`, `'ed448'`, `'x25519'`, `'x448'`, or `'dh'`.
  * `options`: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `modulusLength`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Key size in bits (RSA, DSA).
    * `publicExponent`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Public exponent (RSA). **Default:** `0x10001`.
    * `hashAlgorithm`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of the message digest (RSA-PSS).
    * `mgf1HashAlgorithm`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of the message digest used by MGF1 (RSA-PSS).
    * `saltLength`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Minimal salt length in bytes (RSA-PSS).
    * `divisorLength`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Size of `q` in bits (DSA).
    * `namedCurve`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of the curve to use (EC).
    * `prime`: <Buffer> The prime parameter (DH).
    * `primeLength`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Prime length in bits (DH).
    * `generator`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Custom generator (DH). **Default:** `2`.
    * `groupName`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Diffie-Hellman group name (DH). See `crypto.getDiffieHellman()`.
    * `paramEncoding`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'named'` or `'explicit'` (EC). **Default:** `'named'`.
    * `publicKeyEncoding`: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) See `keyObject.export()`.
    * `privateKeyEncoding`: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) See `keyObject.export()`.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `publicKey`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <KeyObject>
    * `privateKey`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <KeyObject>

Generates a new asymmetric key pair of the given `type`. RSA, RSA-PSS, DSA,
EC, Ed25519, Ed448, X25519, X448, and DH are currently supported.

If a `publicKeyEncoding` or `privateKeyEncoding` was specified, this function
behaves as if `keyObject.export()` had been called on its result. Otherwise,
the respective part of the key is returned as a `KeyObject`.

When encoding public keys, it is recommended to use `'spki'`. When encoding
private keys, it is recommended to use `'pkcs8'` with a strong passphrase, and
to keep the passphrase confidential.

    
    
    const {
      generateKeyPairSync,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const {
      publicKey,
      privateKey,
    } = generateKeyPairSync('rsa', {
      modulusLength: 4096,
      publicKeyEncoding: {
        type: 'spki',
        format: 'pem',
      },
      privateKeyEncoding: {
        type: 'pkcs8',
        format: 'pem',
        cipher: 'aes-256-cbc',
        passphrase: 'top secret',
      },
    });const {
      generateKeyPairSync,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const {
      publicKey,
      privateKey,
    } = generateKeyPairSync('rsa', {
      modulusLength: 4096,
      publicKeyEncoding: {
        type: 'spki',
        format: 'pem',
      },
      privateKeyEncoding: {
        type: 'pkcs8',
        format: 'pem',
        cipher: 'aes-256-cbc',
        passphrase: 'top secret',
      },
    });copy

The return value `{ publicKey, privateKey }` represents the generated key
pair. When PEM encoding was selected, the respective key will be a string,
otherwise it will be a buffer containing the data encoded as DER.

#### `crypto.generateKeySync(type, options)`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * `type`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The intended use of the generated secret key. Currently accepted values are `'hmac'` and `'aes'`.
  * `options`: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `length`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The bit length of the key to generate. 
      * If `type` is `'hmac'`, the minimum is 8, and the maximum length is 231-1. If the value is not a multiple of 8, the generated key will be truncated to `Math.floor(length / 8)`.
      * If `type` is `'aes'`, the length must be one of `128`, `192`, or `256`.
  * Returns: <KeyObject>

Synchronously generates a new random secret key of the given `length`. The
`type` will determine which validations will be performed on the `length`.

    
    
    const {
      generateKeySync,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const key = generateKeySync('hmac', { length: 512 });
    console.log(key.export().toString('hex'));  // e89..........41econst {
      generateKeySync,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const key = generateKeySync('hmac', { length: 512 });
    console.log(key.export().toString('hex'));  // e89..........41ecopy

The size of a generated HMAC key should not exceed the block size of the
underlying hash function. See `crypto.createHmac()` for more information.

#### `crypto.generatePrime(size[, options[, callback]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v15.8.0 | Added in: v15.8.0  
  
  * `size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The size (in bits) of the prime to generate.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `add` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | <Buffer> | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)
    * `rem` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | <Buffer> | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)
    * `safe` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`.
    * `bigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, the generated prime is returned as a `bigint`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `prime` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Generates a pseudorandom prime of `size` bits.

If `options.safe` is `true`, the prime will be a safe prime -- that is,
`(prime - 1) / 2` will also be a prime.

The `options.add` and `options.rem` parameters can be used to enforce
additional requirements, e.g., for Diffie-Hellman:

  * If `options.add` and `options.rem` are both set, the prime will satisfy the condition that `prime % add = rem`.
  * If only `options.add` is set and `options.safe` is not `true`, the prime will satisfy the condition that `prime % add = 1`.
  * If only `options.add` is set and `options.safe` is set to `true`, the prime will instead satisfy the condition that `prime % add = 3`. This is necessary because `prime % add = 1` for `options.add > 2` would contradict the condition enforced by `options.safe`.
  * `options.rem` is ignored if `options.add` is not given.

Both `options.add` and `options.rem` must be encoded as big-endian sequences
if given as an `ArrayBuffer`, `SharedArrayBuffer`, `TypedArray`, `Buffer`, or
`DataView`.

By default, the prime is encoded as a big-endian sequence of octets in an
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer). If the `bigint`
option is `true`, then a [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) is provided.

The `size` of the prime will have a direct impact on how long it takes to
generate the prime. The larger the size, the longer it will take. Because we
use OpenSSL's `BN_generate_prime_ex` function, which provides only minimal
control over our ability to interrupt the generation process, it is not
recommended to generate overly large primes, as doing so may make the process
unresponsive.

#### `crypto.generatePrimeSync(size[, options])`#

Added in: v15.8.0

  * `size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The size (in bits) of the prime to generate.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `add` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | <Buffer> | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)
    * `rem` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | <Buffer> | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)
    * `safe` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`.
    * `bigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, the generated prime is returned as a `bigint`.
  * Returns: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Generates a pseudorandom prime of `size` bits.

If `options.safe` is `true`, the prime will be a safe prime -- that is,
`(prime - 1) / 2` will also be a prime.

The `options.add` and `options.rem` parameters can be used to enforce
additional requirements, e.g., for Diffie-Hellman:

  * If `options.add` and `options.rem` are both set, the prime will satisfy the condition that `prime % add = rem`.
  * If only `options.add` is set and `options.safe` is not `true`, the prime will satisfy the condition that `prime % add = 1`.
  * If only `options.add` is set and `options.safe` is set to `true`, the prime will instead satisfy the condition that `prime % add = 3`. This is necessary because `prime % add = 1` for `options.add > 2` would contradict the condition enforced by `options.safe`.
  * `options.rem` is ignored if `options.add` is not given.

Both `options.add` and `options.rem` must be encoded as big-endian sequences
if given as an `ArrayBuffer`, `SharedArrayBuffer`, `TypedArray`, `Buffer`, or
`DataView`.

By default, the prime is encoded as a big-endian sequence of octets in an
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer). If the `bigint`
option is `true`, then a [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) is provided.

The `size` of the prime will have a direct impact on how long it takes to
generate the prime. The larger the size, the longer it will take. Because we
use OpenSSL's `BN_generate_prime_ex` function, which provides only minimal
control over our ability to interrupt the generation process, it is not
recommended to generate overly large primes, as doing so may make the process
unresponsive.

#### `crypto.getCipherInfo(nameOrNid[, options])`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * `nameOrNid`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The name or nid of the cipher to query.
  * `options`: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `keyLength`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A test key length.
    * `ivLength`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A test IV length.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The name of the cipher
    * `nid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The nid of the cipher
    * `blockSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The block size of the cipher in bytes. This property is omitted when `mode` is `'stream'`.
    * `ivLength` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The expected or default initialization vector length in bytes. This property is omitted if the cipher does not use an initialization vector.
    * `keyLength` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The expected or default key length in bytes.
    * `mode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The cipher mode. One of `'cbc'`, `'ccm'`, `'cfb'`, `'ctr'`, `'ecb'`, `'gcm'`, `'ocb'`, `'ofb'`, `'stream'`, `'wrap'`, `'xts'`.

Returns information about a given cipher.

Some ciphers accept variable length keys and initialization vectors. By
default, the `crypto.getCipherInfo()` method will return the default values
for these ciphers. To test if a given key length or iv length is acceptable
for given cipher, use the `keyLength` and `ivLength` options. If the given
values are unacceptable, `undefined` will be returned.

#### `crypto.getCiphers()`#

Added in: v0.9.3

  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) An array with the names of the supported cipher algorithms.

    
    
    const {
      getCiphers,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    console.log(getCiphers()); // ['aes-128-cbc', 'aes-128-ccm', ...]const {
      getCiphers,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    console.log(getCiphers()); // ['aes-128-cbc', 'aes-128-ccm', ...]copy

#### `crypto.getCurves()`#

Added in: v2.3.0

  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) An array with the names of the supported elliptic curves.

    
    
    const {
      getCurves,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    console.log(getCurves()); // ['Oakley-EC2N-3', 'Oakley-EC2N-4', ...]const {
      getCurves,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    console.log(getCurves()); // ['Oakley-EC2N-3', 'Oakley-EC2N-4', ...]copy

#### `crypto.getDiffieHellman(groupName)`#

Added in: v0.7.5

  * `groupName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: <DiffieHellmanGroup>

Creates a predefined `DiffieHellmanGroup` key exchange object. The supported
groups are listed in the documentation for `DiffieHellmanGroup`.

The returned object mimics the interface of objects created by
`crypto.createDiffieHellman()`, but will not allow changing the keys (with
`diffieHellman.setPublicKey()`, for example). The advantage of using this
method is that the parties do not have to generate nor exchange a group
modulus beforehand, saving both processor and communication time.

Example (obtaining a shared secret):

    
    
    const {
      getDiffieHellman,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    const alice = getDiffieHellman('modp14');
    const bob = getDiffieHellman('modp14');
    
    alice.generateKeys();
    bob.generateKeys();
    
    const aliceSecret = alice.computeSecret(bob.getPublicKey(), null, 'hex');
    const bobSecret = bob.computeSecret(alice.getPublicKey(), null, 'hex');
    
    /* aliceSecret and bobSecret should be the same */
    console.log(aliceSecret === bobSecret);const {
      getDiffieHellman,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const alice = getDiffieHellman('modp14');
    const bob = getDiffieHellman('modp14');
    
    alice.generateKeys();
    bob.generateKeys();
    
    const aliceSecret = alice.computeSecret(bob.getPublicKey(), null, 'hex');
    const bobSecret = bob.computeSecret(alice.getPublicKey(), null, 'hex');
    
    /* aliceSecret and bobSecret should be the same */
    console.log(aliceSecret === bobSecret);copy

#### `crypto.getFips()`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `1` if and only if a FIPS compliant crypto provider is currently in use, `0` otherwise. A future semver-major release may change the return type of this API to a [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type).

#### `crypto.getHashes()`#

Added in: v0.9.3

  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) An array of the names of the supported hash algorithms, such as `'RSA-SHA256'`. Hash algorithms are also called "digest" algorithms.

    
    
    const {
      getHashes,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    console.log(getHashes()); // ['DSA', 'DSA-SHA', 'DSA-SHA1', ...]const {
      getHashes,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    console.log(getHashes()); // ['DSA', 'DSA-SHA', 'DSA-SHA1', ...]copy

#### `crypto.getRandomValues(typedArray)`#

Added in: v17.4.0

  * `typedArray` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer)
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) Returns `typedArray`.

A convenient alias for `crypto.webcrypto.getRandomValues()`. This
implementation is not compliant with the Web Crypto spec, to write web-
compatible code use `crypto.webcrypto.getRandomValues()` instead.

#### `crypto.hash(algorithm, data[, outputEncoding])`#

Added in: v21.7.0, v20.12.0

Stability: 1.2 - Release candidate

  * `algorithm` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) When `data` is a string, it will be encoded as UTF-8 before being hashed. If a different input encoding is desired for a string input, user could encode the string into a `TypedArray` using either `TextEncoder` or `Buffer.from()` and passing the encoded `TypedArray` into this API instead.
  * `outputEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Encoding used to encode the returned digest. **Default:** `'hex'`.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>

A utility for creating one-shot hash digests of data. It can be faster than
the object-based `crypto.createHash()` when hashing a smaller amount of data
(<= 5MB) that's readily available. If the data can be big or if it is
streamed, it's still recommended to use `crypto.createHash()` instead.

The `algorithm` is dependent on the available algorithms supported by the
version of OpenSSL on the platform. Examples are `'sha256'`, `'sha512'`, etc.
On recent releases of OpenSSL, `openssl list -digest-algorithms` will display
the available digest algorithms.

Example:

    
    
    const crypto = require('node:crypto');
    const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    // Hashing a string and return the result as a hex-encoded string.
    const string = 'Node.js';
    // 10b3493287f831e81a438811a1ffba01f8cec4b7
    console.log(crypto.hash('sha1', string));
    
    // Encode a base64-encoded string into a Buffer, hash it and return
    // the result as a buffer.
    const base64 = 'Tm9kZS5qcw==';
    // <Buffer 10 b3 49 32 87 f8 31 e8 1a 43 88 11 a1 ff ba 01 f8 ce c4 b7>
    console.log(crypto.hash('sha1', Buffer.from(base64, 'base64'), 'buffer'));import crypto from 'node:crypto';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    // Hashing a string and return the result as a hex-encoded string.
    const string = 'Node.js';
    // 10b3493287f831e81a438811a1ffba01f8cec4b7
    console.log(crypto.hash('sha1', string));
    
    // Encode a base64-encoded string into a Buffer, hash it and return
    // the result as a buffer.
    const base64 = 'Tm9kZS5qcw==';
    // <Buffer 10 b3 49 32 87 f8 31 e8 1a 43 88 11 a1 ff ba 01 f8 ce c4 b7>
    console.log(crypto.hash('sha1', Buffer.from(base64, 'base64'), 'buffer'));copy

#### `crypto.hkdf(digest, ikm, salt, info, keylen, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v18.8.0, v16.18.0 | The input keying material can now be zero-length.  
v15.0.0 | Added in: v15.0.0  
  
  * `digest` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The digest algorithm to use.
  * `ikm` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <KeyObject> The input keying material. Must be provided but can be zero-length.
  * `salt` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) The salt value. Must be provided but can be zero-length.
  * `info` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) Additional info value. Must be provided but can be zero-length, and cannot be more than 1024 bytes.
  * `keylen` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The length of the key to generate. Must be greater than 0. The maximum allowable value is `255` times the number of bytes produced by the selected digest function (e.g. `sha512` generates 64-byte hashes, making the maximum HKDF output 16320 bytes).
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `derivedKey` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer)

HKDF is a simple key derivation function defined in RFC 5869. The given `ikm`,
`salt` and `info` are used with the `digest` to derive a key of `keylen`
bytes.

The supplied `callback` function is called with two arguments: `err` and
`derivedKey`. If an errors occurs while deriving the key, `err` will be set;
otherwise `err` will be `null`. The successfully generated `derivedKey` will
be passed to the callback as an
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer). An error will be
thrown if any of the input arguments specify invalid values or types.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    const {
      hkdf,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    hkdf('sha512', 'key', 'salt', 'info', 64, (err, derivedKey) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(Buffer.from(derivedKey).toString('hex'));  // '24156e2...5391653'
    });const {
      hkdf,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    hkdf('sha512', 'key', 'salt', 'info', 64, (err, derivedKey) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(Buffer.from(derivedKey).toString('hex'));  // '24156e2...5391653'
    });copy

#### `crypto.hkdfSync(digest, ikm, salt, info, keylen)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.8.0, v16.18.0 | The input keying material can now be zero-length.  
v15.0.0 | Added in: v15.0.0  
  
  * `digest` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The digest algorithm to use.
  * `ikm` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <KeyObject> The input keying material. Must be provided but can be zero-length.
  * `salt` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) The salt value. Must be provided but can be zero-length.
  * `info` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) Additional info value. Must be provided but can be zero-length, and cannot be more than 1024 bytes.
  * `keylen` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The length of the key to generate. Must be greater than 0. The maximum allowable value is `255` times the number of bytes produced by the selected digest function (e.g. `sha512` generates 64-byte hashes, making the maximum HKDF output 16320 bytes).
  * Returns: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer)

Provides a synchronous HKDF key derivation function as defined in RFC 5869.
The given `ikm`, `salt` and `info` are used with the `digest` to derive a key
of `keylen` bytes.

The successfully generated `derivedKey` will be returned as an
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer).

An error will be thrown if any of the input arguments specify invalid values
or types, or if the derived key cannot be generated.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    const {
      hkdfSync,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const derivedKey = hkdfSync('sha512', 'key', 'salt', 'info', 64);
    console.log(Buffer.from(derivedKey).toString('hex'));  // '24156e2...5391653'const {
      hkdfSync,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const derivedKey = hkdfSync('sha512', 'key', 'salt', 'info', 64);
    console.log(Buffer.from(derivedKey).toString('hex'));  // '24156e2...5391653'copy

#### `crypto.pbkdf2(password, salt, iterations, keylen, digest, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v15.0.0 | The password and salt arguments can also be ArrayBuffer instances.  
v14.0.0 | The `iterations` parameter is now restricted to positive values. Earlier releases treated other values as one.  
v8.0.0 | The `digest` parameter is always required now.  
v6.0.0 | Calling this function without passing the `digest` parameter is deprecated now and will emit a warning.  
v6.0.0 | The default encoding for `password` if it is a string changed from `binary` to `utf8`.  
v0.5.5 | Added in: v0.5.5  
  
  * `password` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `salt` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `iterations` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `keylen` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `digest` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `derivedKey` <Buffer>

Provides an asynchronous Password-Based Key Derivation Function 2 (PBKDF2)
implementation. A selected HMAC digest algorithm specified by `digest` is
applied to derive a key of the requested byte length (`keylen`) from the
`password`, `salt` and `iterations`.

The supplied `callback` function is called with two arguments: `err` and
`derivedKey`. If an error occurs while deriving the key, `err` will be set;
otherwise `err` will be `null`. By default, the successfully generated
`derivedKey` will be passed to the callback as a [`Buffer`](buffer.html). An
error will be thrown if any of the input arguments specify invalid values or
types.

The `iterations` argument must be a number set as high as possible. The higher
the number of iterations, the more secure the derived key will be, but will
take a longer amount of time to complete.

The `salt` should be as unique as possible. It is recommended that a salt is
random and at least 16 bytes long. See [NIST SP
800-132](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-132.pdf)
for details.

When passing strings for `password` or `salt`, please consider caveats when
using strings as inputs to cryptographic APIs.

    
    
    const {
      pbkdf2,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    pbkdf2('secret', 'salt', 100000, 64, 'sha512', (err, derivedKey) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(derivedKey.toString('hex'));  // '3745e48...08d59ae'
    });const {
      pbkdf2,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    pbkdf2('secret', 'salt', 100000, 64, 'sha512', (err, derivedKey) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(derivedKey.toString('hex'));  // '3745e48...08d59ae'
    });copy

An array of supported digest functions can be retrieved using
`crypto.getHashes()`.

This API uses libuv's threadpool, which can have surprising and negative
performance implications for some applications; see the `UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE`
documentation for more information.

#### `crypto.pbkdf2Sync(password, salt, iterations, keylen, digest)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | The `iterations` parameter is now restricted to positive values. Earlier releases treated other values as one.  
v6.0.0 | Calling this function without passing the `digest` parameter is deprecated now and will emit a warning.  
v6.0.0 | The default encoding for `password` if it is a string changed from `binary` to `utf8`.  
v0.9.3 | Added in: v0.9.3  
  
  * `password` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `salt` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `iterations` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `keylen` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `digest` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: <Buffer>

Provides a synchronous Password-Based Key Derivation Function 2 (PBKDF2)
implementation. A selected HMAC digest algorithm specified by `digest` is
applied to derive a key of the requested byte length (`keylen`) from the
`password`, `salt` and `iterations`.

If an error occurs an `Error` will be thrown, otherwise the derived key will
be returned as a [`Buffer`](buffer.html).

The `iterations` argument must be a number set as high as possible. The higher
the number of iterations, the more secure the derived key will be, but will
take a longer amount of time to complete.

The `salt` should be as unique as possible. It is recommended that a salt is
random and at least 16 bytes long. See [NIST SP
800-132](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-132.pdf)
for details.

When passing strings for `password` or `salt`, please consider caveats when
using strings as inputs to cryptographic APIs.

    
    
    const {
      pbkdf2Sync,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const key = pbkdf2Sync('secret', 'salt', 100000, 64, 'sha512');
    console.log(key.toString('hex'));  // '3745e48...08d59ae'const {
      pbkdf2Sync,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const key = pbkdf2Sync('secret', 'salt', 100000, 64, 'sha512');
    console.log(key.toString('hex'));  // '3745e48...08d59ae'copy

An array of supported digest functions can be retrieved using
`crypto.getHashes()`.

#### `crypto.privateDecrypt(privateKey, buffer)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.6.2, v20.11.1, v18.19.1 | The `RSA_PKCS1_PADDING` padding was disabled unless the OpenSSL build supports implicit rejection.  
v15.0.0 | Added string, ArrayBuffer, and CryptoKey as allowable key types. The oaepLabel can be an ArrayBuffer. The buffer can be a string or ArrayBuffer. All types that accept buffers are limited to a maximum of 2 ** 31 - 1 bytes.  
v12.11.0 | The `oaepLabel` option was added.  
v12.9.0 | The `oaepHash` option was added.  
v11.6.0 | This function now supports key objects.  
v0.11.14 | Added in: v0.11.14  
  
  * `privateKey` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <KeyObject> | <CryptoKey>
    * `oaepHash` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The hash function to use for OAEP padding and MGF1. **Default:** `'sha1'`
    * `oaepLabel` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) The label to use for OAEP padding. If not specified, no label is used.
    * `padding` <crypto.constants> An optional padding value defined in `crypto.constants`, which may be: `crypto.constants.RSA_NO_PADDING`, `crypto.constants.RSA_PKCS1_PADDING`, or `crypto.constants.RSA_PKCS1_OAEP_PADDING`.
  * `buffer` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * Returns: <Buffer> A new `Buffer` with the decrypted content.

Decrypts `buffer` with `privateKey`. `buffer` was previously encrypted using
the corresponding public key, for example using `crypto.publicEncrypt()`.

If `privateKey` is not a `KeyObject`, this function behaves as if `privateKey`
had been passed to `crypto.createPrivateKey()`. If it is an object, the
`padding` property can be passed. Otherwise, this function uses
`RSA_PKCS1_OAEP_PADDING`.

Using `crypto.constants.RSA_PKCS1_PADDING` in `crypto.privateDecrypt()`
requires OpenSSL to support implicit rejection
(`rsa_pkcs1_implicit_rejection`). If the version of OpenSSL used by Node.js
does not support this feature, attempting to use `RSA_PKCS1_PADDING` will
fail.

#### `crypto.privateEncrypt(privateKey, buffer)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | Added string, ArrayBuffer, and CryptoKey as allowable key types. The passphrase can be an ArrayBuffer. The buffer can be a string or ArrayBuffer. All types that accept buffers are limited to a maximum of 2 ** 31 - 1 bytes.  
v11.6.0 | This function now supports key objects.  
v1.1.0 | Added in: v1.1.0  
  
  * `privateKey` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <KeyObject> | <CryptoKey>
    * `key` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <KeyObject> | <CryptoKey> A PEM encoded private key.
    * `passphrase` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) An optional passphrase for the private key.
    * `padding` <crypto.constants> An optional padding value defined in `crypto.constants`, which may be: `crypto.constants.RSA_NO_PADDING` or `crypto.constants.RSA_PKCS1_PADDING`.
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The string encoding to use when `buffer`, `key`, or `passphrase` are strings.
  * `buffer` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * Returns: <Buffer> A new `Buffer` with the encrypted content.

Encrypts `buffer` with `privateKey`. The returned data can be decrypted using
the corresponding public key, for example using `crypto.publicDecrypt()`.

If `privateKey` is not a `KeyObject`, this function behaves as if `privateKey`
had been passed to `crypto.createPrivateKey()`. If it is an object, the
`padding` property can be passed. Otherwise, this function uses
`RSA_PKCS1_PADDING`.

#### `crypto.publicDecrypt(key, buffer)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | Added string, ArrayBuffer, and CryptoKey as allowable key types. The passphrase can be an ArrayBuffer. The buffer can be a string or ArrayBuffer. All types that accept buffers are limited to a maximum of 2 ** 31 - 1 bytes.  
v11.6.0 | This function now supports key objects.  
v1.1.0 | Added in: v1.1.0  
  
  * `key` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <KeyObject> | <CryptoKey>
    * `passphrase` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) An optional passphrase for the private key.
    * `padding` <crypto.constants> An optional padding value defined in `crypto.constants`, which may be: `crypto.constants.RSA_NO_PADDING` or `crypto.constants.RSA_PKCS1_PADDING`.
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The string encoding to use when `buffer`, `key`, or `passphrase` are strings.
  * `buffer` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * Returns: <Buffer> A new `Buffer` with the decrypted content.

Decrypts `buffer` with `key`.`buffer` was previously encrypted using the
corresponding private key, for example using `crypto.privateEncrypt()`.

If `key` is not a `KeyObject`, this function behaves as if `key` had been
passed to `crypto.createPublicKey()`. If it is an object, the `padding`
property can be passed. Otherwise, this function uses `RSA_PKCS1_PADDING`.

Because RSA public keys can be derived from private keys, a private key may be
passed instead of a public key.

#### `crypto.publicEncrypt(key, buffer)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | Added string, ArrayBuffer, and CryptoKey as allowable key types. The oaepLabel and passphrase can be ArrayBuffers. The buffer can be a string or ArrayBuffer. All types that accept buffers are limited to a maximum of 2 ** 31 - 1 bytes.  
v12.11.0 | The `oaepLabel` option was added.  
v12.9.0 | The `oaepHash` option was added.  
v11.6.0 | This function now supports key objects.  
v0.11.14 | Added in: v0.11.14  
  
  * `key` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <KeyObject> | <CryptoKey>
    * `key` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <KeyObject> | <CryptoKey> A PEM encoded public or private key, <KeyObject>, or <CryptoKey>.
    * `oaepHash` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The hash function to use for OAEP padding and MGF1. **Default:** `'sha1'`
    * `oaepLabel` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) The label to use for OAEP padding. If not specified, no label is used.
    * `passphrase` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) An optional passphrase for the private key.
    * `padding` <crypto.constants> An optional padding value defined in `crypto.constants`, which may be: `crypto.constants.RSA_NO_PADDING`, `crypto.constants.RSA_PKCS1_PADDING`, or `crypto.constants.RSA_PKCS1_OAEP_PADDING`.
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The string encoding to use when `buffer`, `key`, `oaepLabel`, or `passphrase` are strings.
  * `buffer` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * Returns: <Buffer> A new `Buffer` with the encrypted content.

Encrypts the content of `buffer` with `key` and returns a new
[`Buffer`](buffer.html) with encrypted content. The returned data can be
decrypted using the corresponding private key, for example using
`crypto.privateDecrypt()`.

If `key` is not a `KeyObject`, this function behaves as if `key` had been
passed to `crypto.createPublicKey()`. If it is an object, the `padding`
property can be passed. Otherwise, this function uses
`RSA_PKCS1_OAEP_PADDING`.

Because RSA public keys can be derived from private keys, a private key may be
passed instead of a public key.

#### `crypto.randomBytes(size[, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v9.0.0 | Passing `null` as the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v0.5.8 | Added in: v0.5.8  
  
  * `size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes to generate. The `size` must not be larger than `2**31 - 1`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `buf` <Buffer>
  * Returns: <Buffer> if the `callback` function is not provided.

Generates cryptographically strong pseudorandom data. The `size` argument is a
number indicating the number of bytes to generate.

If a `callback` function is provided, the bytes are generated asynchronously
and the `callback` function is invoked with two arguments: `err` and `buf`. If
an error occurs, `err` will be an `Error` object; otherwise it is `null`. The
`buf` argument is a [`Buffer`](buffer.html) containing the generated bytes.

    
    
    // Asynchronous
    const {
      randomBytes,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    randomBytes(256, (err, buf) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(`${buf.length} bytes of random data: ${buf.toString('hex')}`);
    });// Asynchronous
    const {
      randomBytes,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    randomBytes(256, (err, buf) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(`${buf.length} bytes of random data: ${buf.toString('hex')}`);
    });copy

If the `callback` function is not provided, the random bytes are generated
synchronously and returned as a [`Buffer`](buffer.html). An error will be
thrown if there is a problem generating the bytes.

    
    
    // Synchronous
    const {
      randomBytes,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const buf = randomBytes(256);
    console.log(
      `${buf.length} bytes of random data: ${buf.toString('hex')}`);// Synchronous
    const {
      randomBytes,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const buf = randomBytes(256);
    console.log(
      `${buf.length} bytes of random data: ${buf.toString('hex')}`);copy

The `crypto.randomBytes()` method will not complete until there is sufficient
entropy available. This should normally never take longer than a few
milliseconds. The only time when generating the random bytes may conceivably
block for a longer period of time is right after boot, when the whole system
is still low on entropy.

This API uses libuv's threadpool, which can have surprising and negative
performance implications for some applications; see the `UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE`
documentation for more information.

The asynchronous version of `crypto.randomBytes()` is carried out in a single
threadpool request. To minimize threadpool task length variation, partition
large `randomBytes` requests when doing so as part of fulfilling a client
request.

#### `crypto.randomFill(buffer[, offset][, size], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v9.0.0 | The `buffer` argument may be any `TypedArray` or `DataView`.  
v7.10.0, v6.13.0 | Added in: v7.10.0, v6.13.0  
  
  * `buffer` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) Must be supplied. The size of the provided `buffer` must not be larger than `2**31 - 1`.
  * `offset` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`
  * `size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `buffer.length - offset`. The `size` must not be larger than `2**31 - 1`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) `function(err, buf) {}`.

This function is similar to `crypto.randomBytes()` but requires the first
argument to be a [`Buffer`](buffer.html) that will be filled. It also requires
that a callback is passed in.

If the `callback` function is not provided, an error will be thrown.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    const { randomFill } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const buf = Buffer.alloc(10);
    randomFill(buf, (err, buf) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(buf.toString('hex'));
    });
    
    randomFill(buf, 5, (err, buf) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(buf.toString('hex'));
    });
    
    // The above is equivalent to the following:
    randomFill(buf, 5, 5, (err, buf) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(buf.toString('hex'));
    });const { randomFill } = require('node:crypto');
    const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.alloc(10);
    randomFill(buf, (err, buf) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(buf.toString('hex'));
    });
    
    randomFill(buf, 5, (err, buf) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(buf.toString('hex'));
    });
    
    // The above is equivalent to the following:
    randomFill(buf, 5, 5, (err, buf) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(buf.toString('hex'));
    });copy

Any `ArrayBuffer`, `TypedArray`, or `DataView` instance may be passed as
`buffer`.

While this includes instances of `Float32Array` and `Float64Array`, this
function should not be used to generate random floating-point numbers. The
result may contain `+Infinity`, `-Infinity`, and `NaN`, and even if the array
contains finite numbers only, they are not drawn from a uniform random
distribution and have no meaningful lower or upper bounds.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    const { randomFill } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const a = new Uint32Array(10);
    randomFill(a, (err, buf) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(Buffer.from(buf.buffer, buf.byteOffset, buf.byteLength)
        .toString('hex'));
    });
    
    const b = new DataView(new ArrayBuffer(10));
    randomFill(b, (err, buf) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(Buffer.from(buf.buffer, buf.byteOffset, buf.byteLength)
        .toString('hex'));
    });
    
    const c = new ArrayBuffer(10);
    randomFill(c, (err, buf) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(Buffer.from(buf).toString('hex'));
    });const { randomFill } = require('node:crypto');
    const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const a = new Uint32Array(10);
    randomFill(a, (err, buf) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(Buffer.from(buf.buffer, buf.byteOffset, buf.byteLength)
        .toString('hex'));
    });
    
    const b = new DataView(new ArrayBuffer(10));
    randomFill(b, (err, buf) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(Buffer.from(buf.buffer, buf.byteOffset, buf.byteLength)
        .toString('hex'));
    });
    
    const c = new ArrayBuffer(10);
    randomFill(c, (err, buf) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(Buffer.from(buf).toString('hex'));
    });copy

This API uses libuv's threadpool, which can have surprising and negative
performance implications for some applications; see the `UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE`
documentation for more information.

The asynchronous version of `crypto.randomFill()` is carried out in a single
threadpool request. To minimize threadpool task length variation, partition
large `randomFill` requests when doing so as part of fulfilling a client
request.

#### `crypto.randomFillSync(buffer[, offset][, size])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.0.0 | The `buffer` argument may be any `TypedArray` or `DataView`.  
v7.10.0, v6.13.0 | Added in: v7.10.0, v6.13.0  
  
  * `buffer` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) Must be supplied. The size of the provided `buffer` must not be larger than `2**31 - 1`.
  * `offset` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`
  * `size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `buffer.length - offset`. The `size` must not be larger than `2**31 - 1`.
  * Returns: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) The object passed as `buffer` argument.

Synchronous version of `crypto.randomFill()`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    const { randomFillSync } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const buf = Buffer.alloc(10);
    console.log(randomFillSync(buf).toString('hex'));
    
    randomFillSync(buf, 5);
    console.log(buf.toString('hex'));
    
    // The above is equivalent to the following:
    randomFillSync(buf, 5, 5);
    console.log(buf.toString('hex'));const { randomFillSync } = require('node:crypto');
    const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf = Buffer.alloc(10);
    console.log(randomFillSync(buf).toString('hex'));
    
    randomFillSync(buf, 5);
    console.log(buf.toString('hex'));
    
    // The above is equivalent to the following:
    randomFillSync(buf, 5, 5);
    console.log(buf.toString('hex'));copy

Any `ArrayBuffer`, `TypedArray` or `DataView` instance may be passed as
`buffer`.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    const { randomFillSync } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const a = new Uint32Array(10);
    console.log(Buffer.from(randomFillSync(a).buffer,
                            a.byteOffset, a.byteLength).toString('hex'));
    
    const b = new DataView(new ArrayBuffer(10));
    console.log(Buffer.from(randomFillSync(b).buffer,
                            b.byteOffset, b.byteLength).toString('hex'));
    
    const c = new ArrayBuffer(10);
    console.log(Buffer.from(randomFillSync(c)).toString('hex'));const { randomFillSync } = require('node:crypto');
    const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const a = new Uint32Array(10);
    console.log(Buffer.from(randomFillSync(a).buffer,
                            a.byteOffset, a.byteLength).toString('hex'));
    
    const b = new DataView(new ArrayBuffer(10));
    console.log(Buffer.from(randomFillSync(b).buffer,
                            b.byteOffset, b.byteLength).toString('hex'));
    
    const c = new ArrayBuffer(10);
    console.log(Buffer.from(randomFillSync(c)).toString('hex'));copy

#### `crypto.randomInt([min, ]max[, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v14.10.0, v12.19.0 | Added in: v14.10.0, v12.19.0  
  
  * `min` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Start of random range (inclusive). **Default:** `0`.
  * `max` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) End of random range (exclusive).
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) `function(err, n) {}`.

Return a random integer `n` such that `min <= n < max`. This implementation
avoids [modulo
bias](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fisher%E2%80%93Yates_shuffle#Modulo_bias).

The range (`max - min`) must be less than 248. `min` and `max` must be [safe
integers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number/isSafeInteger).

If the `callback` function is not provided, the random integer is generated
synchronously.

    
    
    // Asynchronous
    const {
      randomInt,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    randomInt(3, (err, n) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(`Random number chosen from (0, 1, 2): ${n}`);
    });// Asynchronous
    const {
      randomInt,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    randomInt(3, (err, n) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(`Random number chosen from (0, 1, 2): ${n}`);
    });copy
    
    
    // Synchronous
    const {
      randomInt,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const n = randomInt(3);
    console.log(`Random number chosen from (0, 1, 2): ${n}`);// Synchronous
    const {
      randomInt,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const n = randomInt(3);
    console.log(`Random number chosen from (0, 1, 2): ${n}`);copy
    
    
    // With `min` argument
    const {
      randomInt,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const n = randomInt(1, 7);
    console.log(`The dice rolled: ${n}`);// With `min` argument
    const {
      randomInt,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const n = randomInt(1, 7);
    console.log(`The dice rolled: ${n}`);copy

#### `crypto.randomUUID([options])`#

Added in: v15.6.0, v14.17.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `disableEntropyCache` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) By default, to improve performance, Node.js generates and caches enough random data to generate up to 128 random UUIDs. To generate a UUID without using the cache, set `disableEntropyCache` to `true`. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Generates a random [RFC 4122](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4122.txt)
version 4 UUID. The UUID is generated using a cryptographic pseudorandom
number generator.

#### `crypto.scrypt(password, salt, keylen[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v15.0.0 | The password and salt arguments can also be ArrayBuffer instances.  
v12.8.0, v10.17.0 | The `maxmem` value can now be any safe integer.  
v10.9.0 | The `cost`, `blockSize` and `parallelization` option names have been added.  
v10.5.0 | Added in: v10.5.0  
  
  * `password` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `salt` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `keylen` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `cost` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) CPU/memory cost parameter. Must be a power of two greater than one. **Default:** `16384`.
    * `blockSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Block size parameter. **Default:** `8`.
    * `parallelization` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Parallelization parameter. **Default:** `1`.
    * `N` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Alias for `cost`. Only one of both may be specified.
    * `r` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Alias for `blockSize`. Only one of both may be specified.
    * `p` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Alias for `parallelization`. Only one of both may be specified.
    * `maxmem` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Memory upper bound. It is an error when (approximately) `128 * N * r > maxmem`. **Default:** `32 * 1024 * 1024`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `derivedKey` <Buffer>

Provides an asynchronous [scrypt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrypt)
implementation. Scrypt is a password-based key derivation function that is
designed to be expensive computationally and memory-wise in order to make
brute-force attacks unrewarding.

The `salt` should be as unique as possible. It is recommended that a salt is
random and at least 16 bytes long. See [NIST SP
800-132](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-132.pdf)
for details.

When passing strings for `password` or `salt`, please consider caveats when
using strings as inputs to cryptographic APIs.

The `callback` function is called with two arguments: `err` and `derivedKey`.
`err` is an exception object when key derivation fails, otherwise `err` is
`null`. `derivedKey` is passed to the callback as a [`Buffer`](buffer.html).

An exception is thrown when any of the input arguments specify invalid values
or types.

    
    
    const {
      scrypt,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    // Using the factory defaults.
    scrypt('password', 'salt', 64, (err, derivedKey) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(derivedKey.toString('hex'));  // '3745e48...08d59ae'
    });
    // Using a custom N parameter. Must be a power of two.
    scrypt('password', 'salt', 64, { N: 1024 }, (err, derivedKey) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(derivedKey.toString('hex'));  // '3745e48...aa39b34'
    });const {
      scrypt,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    // Using the factory defaults.
    scrypt('password', 'salt', 64, (err, derivedKey) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(derivedKey.toString('hex'));  // '3745e48...08d59ae'
    });
    // Using a custom N parameter. Must be a power of two.
    scrypt('password', 'salt', 64, { N: 1024 }, (err, derivedKey) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(derivedKey.toString('hex'));  // '3745e48...aa39b34'
    });copy

#### `crypto.scryptSync(password, salt, keylen[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.8.0, v10.17.0 | The `maxmem` value can now be any safe integer.  
v10.9.0 | The `cost`, `blockSize` and `parallelization` option names have been added.  
v10.5.0 | Added in: v10.5.0  
  
  * `password` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `salt` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `keylen` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `cost` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) CPU/memory cost parameter. Must be a power of two greater than one. **Default:** `16384`.
    * `blockSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Block size parameter. **Default:** `8`.
    * `parallelization` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Parallelization parameter. **Default:** `1`.
    * `N` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Alias for `cost`. Only one of both may be specified.
    * `r` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Alias for `blockSize`. Only one of both may be specified.
    * `p` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Alias for `parallelization`. Only one of both may be specified.
    * `maxmem` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Memory upper bound. It is an error when (approximately) `128 * N * r > maxmem`. **Default:** `32 * 1024 * 1024`.
  * Returns: <Buffer>

Provides a synchronous [scrypt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrypt)
implementation. Scrypt is a password-based key derivation function that is
designed to be expensive computationally and memory-wise in order to make
brute-force attacks unrewarding.

The `salt` should be as unique as possible. It is recommended that a salt is
random and at least 16 bytes long. See [NIST SP
800-132](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-132.pdf)
for details.

When passing strings for `password` or `salt`, please consider caveats when
using strings as inputs to cryptographic APIs.

An exception is thrown when key derivation fails, otherwise the derived key is
returned as a [`Buffer`](buffer.html).

An exception is thrown when any of the input arguments specify invalid values
or types.

    
    
    const {
      scryptSync,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    // Using the factory defaults.
    
    const key1 = scryptSync('password', 'salt', 64);
    console.log(key1.toString('hex'));  // '3745e48...08d59ae'
    // Using a custom N parameter. Must be a power of two.
    const key2 = scryptSync('password', 'salt', 64, { N: 1024 });
    console.log(key2.toString('hex'));  // '3745e48...aa39b34'const {
      scryptSync,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    // Using the factory defaults.
    
    const key1 = scryptSync('password', 'salt', 64);
    console.log(key1.toString('hex'));  // '3745e48...08d59ae'
    // Using a custom N parameter. Must be a power of two.
    const key2 = scryptSync('password', 'salt', 64, { N: 1024 });
    console.log(key2.toString('hex'));  // '3745e48...aa39b34'copy

#### `crypto.secureHeapUsed()`#

Added in: v15.6.0

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `total` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The total allocated secure heap size as specified using the `--secure-heap=n` command-line flag.
    * `min` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The minimum allocation from the secure heap as specified using the `--secure-heap-min` command-line flag.
    * `used` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The total number of bytes currently allocated from the secure heap.
    * `utilization` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The calculated ratio of `used` to `total` allocated bytes.

#### `crypto.setEngine(engine[, flags])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.4.0, v20.16.0 | Custom engine support in OpenSSL 3 is deprecated.  
v0.11.11 | Added in: v0.11.11  
  
  * `engine` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `flags` <crypto.constants> **Default:** `crypto.constants.ENGINE_METHOD_ALL`

Load and set the `engine` for some or all OpenSSL functions (selected by
flags). Support for custom engines in OpenSSL is deprecated from OpenSSL 3.

`engine` could be either an id or a path to the engine's shared library.

The optional `flags` argument uses `ENGINE_METHOD_ALL` by default. The `flags`
is a bit field taking one of or a mix of the following flags (defined in
`crypto.constants`):

  * `crypto.constants.ENGINE_METHOD_RSA`
  * `crypto.constants.ENGINE_METHOD_DSA`
  * `crypto.constants.ENGINE_METHOD_DH`
  * `crypto.constants.ENGINE_METHOD_RAND`
  * `crypto.constants.ENGINE_METHOD_EC`
  * `crypto.constants.ENGINE_METHOD_CIPHERS`
  * `crypto.constants.ENGINE_METHOD_DIGESTS`
  * `crypto.constants.ENGINE_METHOD_PKEY_METHS`
  * `crypto.constants.ENGINE_METHOD_PKEY_ASN1_METHS`
  * `crypto.constants.ENGINE_METHOD_ALL`
  * `crypto.constants.ENGINE_METHOD_NONE`

#### `crypto.setFips(bool)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `bool` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` to enable FIPS mode.

Enables the FIPS compliant crypto provider in a FIPS-enabled Node.js build.
Throws an error if FIPS mode is not available.

#### `crypto.sign(algorithm, data, key[, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v15.12.0 | Optional callback argument added.  
v13.2.0, v12.16.0 | This function now supports IEEE-P1363 DSA and ECDSA signatures.  
v12.0.0 | Added in: v12.0.0  
  
  * `algorithm` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)
  * `data` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `key` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <KeyObject> | <CryptoKey>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `signature` <Buffer>
  * Returns: <Buffer> if the `callback` function is not provided.

Calculates and returns the signature for `data` using the given private key
and algorithm. If `algorithm` is `null` or `undefined`, then the algorithm is
dependent upon the key type (especially Ed25519 and Ed448).

If `key` is not a `KeyObject`, this function behaves as if `key` had been
passed to `crypto.createPrivateKey()`. If it is an object, the following
additional properties can be passed:

  * `dsaEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) For DSA and ECDSA, this option specifies the format of the generated signature. It can be one of the following:

    * `'der'` (default): DER-encoded ASN.1 signature structure encoding `(r, s)`.
    * `'ieee-p1363'`: Signature format `r || s` as proposed in IEEE-P1363.
  * `padding` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Optional padding value for RSA, one of the following:

    * `crypto.constants.RSA_PKCS1_PADDING` (default)
    * `crypto.constants.RSA_PKCS1_PSS_PADDING`

`RSA_PKCS1_PSS_PADDING` will use MGF1 with the same hash function used to sign
the message as specified in section 3.1 of [RFC 4055](https://www.rfc-
editor.org/rfc/rfc4055.txt).

  * `saltLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Salt length for when padding is `RSA_PKCS1_PSS_PADDING`. The special value `crypto.constants.RSA_PSS_SALTLEN_DIGEST` sets the salt length to the digest size, `crypto.constants.RSA_PSS_SALTLEN_MAX_SIGN` (default) sets it to the maximum permissible value.

If the `callback` function is provided this function uses libuv's threadpool.

#### `crypto.subtle`#

Added in: v17.4.0

  * Type: <SubtleCrypto>

A convenient alias for `crypto.webcrypto.subtle`.

#### `crypto.timingSafeEqual(a, b)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The a and b arguments can also be ArrayBuffer.  
v6.6.0 | Added in: v6.6.0  
  
  * `a` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `b` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

This function compares the underlying bytes that represent the given
`ArrayBuffer`, `TypedArray`, or `DataView` instances using a constant-time
algorithm.

This function does not leak timing information that would allow an attacker to
guess one of the values. This is suitable for comparing HMAC digests or secret
values like authentication cookies or [capability
urls](https://www.w3.org/TR/capability-urls/).

`a` and `b` must both be `Buffer`s, `TypedArray`s, or `DataView`s, and they
must have the same byte length. An error is thrown if `a` and `b` have
different byte lengths.

If at least one of `a` and `b` is a `TypedArray` with more than one byte per
entry, such as `Uint16Array`, the result will be computed using the platform
byte order.

**When both of the inputs are`Float32Array`s or `Float64Array`s, this function
might return unexpected results due to IEEE 754 encoding of floating-point
numbers. In particular, neither `x === y` nor `Object.is(x, y)` implies that
the byte representations of two floating-point numbers `x` and `y` are
equal.**

Use of `crypto.timingSafeEqual` does not guarantee that the _surrounding_ code
is timing-safe. Care should be taken to ensure that the surrounding code does
not introduce timing vulnerabilities.

#### `crypto.verify(algorithm, data, key, signature[, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v15.12.0 | Optional callback argument added.  
v15.0.0 | The data, key, and signature arguments can also be ArrayBuffer.  
v13.2.0, v12.16.0 | This function now supports IEEE-P1363 DSA and ECDSA signatures.  
v12.0.0 | Added in: v12.0.0  
  
  * `algorithm` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)
  * `data` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `key` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <KeyObject> | <CryptoKey>
  * `signature` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `result` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` or `false` depending on the validity of the signature for the data and public key if the `callback` function is not provided.

Verifies the given signature for `data` using the given key and algorithm. If
`algorithm` is `null` or `undefined`, then the algorithm is dependent upon the
key type (especially Ed25519 and Ed448).

If `key` is not a `KeyObject`, this function behaves as if `key` had been
passed to `crypto.createPublicKey()`. If it is an object, the following
additional properties can be passed:

  * `dsaEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) For DSA and ECDSA, this option specifies the format of the signature. It can be one of the following:

    * `'der'` (default): DER-encoded ASN.1 signature structure encoding `(r, s)`.
    * `'ieee-p1363'`: Signature format `r || s` as proposed in IEEE-P1363.
  * `padding` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Optional padding value for RSA, one of the following:

    * `crypto.constants.RSA_PKCS1_PADDING` (default)
    * `crypto.constants.RSA_PKCS1_PSS_PADDING`

`RSA_PKCS1_PSS_PADDING` will use MGF1 with the same hash function used to sign
the message as specified in section 3.1 of [RFC 4055](https://www.rfc-
editor.org/rfc/rfc4055.txt).

  * `saltLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Salt length for when padding is `RSA_PKCS1_PSS_PADDING`. The special value `crypto.constants.RSA_PSS_SALTLEN_DIGEST` sets the salt length to the digest size, `crypto.constants.RSA_PSS_SALTLEN_MAX_SIGN` (default) sets it to the maximum permissible value.

The `signature` argument is the previously calculated signature for the
`data`.

Because public keys can be derived from private keys, a private key or a
public key may be passed for `key`.

If the `callback` function is provided this function uses libuv's threadpool.

#### `crypto.webcrypto`#

Added in: v15.0.0

Type: <Crypto> An implementation of the Web Crypto API standard.

See the [Web Crypto API documentation](webcrypto.html) for details.

### Notes#

#### Using strings as inputs to cryptographic APIs#

For historical reasons, many cryptographic APIs provided by Node.js accept
strings as inputs where the underlying cryptographic algorithm works on byte
sequences. These instances include plaintexts, ciphertexts, symmetric keys,
initialization vectors, passphrases, salts, authentication tags, and
additional authenticated data.

When passing strings to cryptographic APIs, consider the following factors.

  * Not all byte sequences are valid UTF-8 strings. Therefore, when a byte sequence of length `n` is derived from a string, its entropy is generally lower than the entropy of a random or pseudorandom `n` byte sequence. For example, no UTF-8 string will result in the byte sequence `c0 af`. Secret keys should almost exclusively be random or pseudorandom byte sequences.

  * Similarly, when converting random or pseudorandom byte sequences to UTF-8 strings, subsequences that do not represent valid code points may be replaced by the Unicode replacement character (`U+FFFD`). The byte representation of the resulting Unicode string may, therefore, not be equal to the byte sequence that the string was created from.
    
        const original = [0xc0, 0xaf];
    const bytesAsString = Buffer.from(original).toString('utf8');
    const stringAsBytes = Buffer.from(bytesAsString, 'utf8');
    console.log(stringAsBytes);
    // Prints '<Buffer ef bf bd ef bf bd>'. copy

The outputs of ciphers, hash functions, signature algorithms, and key
derivation functions are pseudorandom byte sequences and should not be used as
Unicode strings.

  * When strings are obtained from user input, some Unicode characters can be represented in multiple equivalent ways that result in different byte sequences. For example, when passing a user passphrase to a key derivation function, such as PBKDF2 or scrypt, the result of the key derivation function depends on whether the string uses composed or decomposed characters. Node.js does not normalize character representations. Developers should consider using [`String.prototype.normalize()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/normalize) on user inputs before passing them to cryptographic APIs.

#### Legacy streams API (prior to Node.js 0.10)#

The Crypto module was added to Node.js before there was the concept of a
unified Stream API, and before there were [`Buffer`](buffer.html) objects for
handling binary data. As such, many `crypto` classes have methods not
typically found on other Node.js classes that implement the
[streams](stream.html) API (e.g. `update()`, `final()`, or `digest()`). Also,
many methods accepted and returned `'latin1'` encoded strings by default
rather than `Buffer`s. This default was changed after Node.js v0.8 to use
[`Buffer`](buffer.html) objects by default instead.

#### Support for weak or compromised algorithms#

The `node:crypto` module still supports some algorithms which are already
compromised and are not recommended for use. The API also allows the use of
ciphers and hashes with a small key size that are too weak for safe use.

Users should take full responsibility for selecting the crypto algorithm and
key size according to their security requirements.

Based on the recommendations of [NIST SP
800-131A](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-131Ar2.pdf):

  * MD5 and SHA-1 are no longer acceptable where collision resistance is required such as digital signatures.
  * The key used with RSA, DSA, and DH algorithms is recommended to have at least 2048 bits and that of the curve of ECDSA and ECDH at least 224 bits, to be safe to use for several years.
  * The DH groups of `modp1`, `modp2` and `modp5` have a key size smaller than 2048 bits and are not recommended.

See the reference for other recommendations and details.

Some algorithms that have known weaknesses and are of little relevance in
practice are only available through the legacy provider, which is not enabled
by default.

#### CCM mode#

CCM is one of the supported [AEAD
algorithms](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authenticated_encryption).
Applications which use this mode must adhere to certain restrictions when
using the cipher API:

  * The authentication tag length must be specified during cipher creation by setting the `authTagLength` option and must be one of 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14 or 16 bytes.
  * The length of the initialization vector (nonce) `N` must be between 7 and 13 bytes (`7 ≤ N ≤ 13`).
  * The length of the plaintext is limited to `2 ** (8 * (15 - N))` bytes.
  * When decrypting, the authentication tag must be set via `setAuthTag()` before calling `update()`. Otherwise, decryption will fail and `final()` will throw an error in compliance with section 2.6 of [RFC 3610](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3610.txt).
  * Using stream methods such as `write(data)`, `end(data)` or `pipe()` in CCM mode might fail as CCM cannot handle more than one chunk of data per instance.
  * When passing additional authenticated data (AAD), the length of the actual message in bytes must be passed to `setAAD()` via the `plaintextLength` option. Many crypto libraries include the authentication tag in the ciphertext, which means that they produce ciphertexts of the length `plaintextLength + authTagLength`. Node.js does not include the authentication tag, so the ciphertext length is always `plaintextLength`. This is not necessary if no AAD is used.
  * As CCM processes the whole message at once, `update()` must be called exactly once.
  * Even though calling `update()` is sufficient to encrypt/decrypt the message, applications _must_ call `final()` to compute or verify the authentication tag.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    const {
      createCipheriv,
      createDecipheriv,
      randomBytes,
    } = await import('node:crypto');
    
    const key = 'keykeykeykeykeykeykeykey';
    const nonce = randomBytes(12);
    
    const aad = Buffer.from('0123456789', 'hex');
    
    const cipher = createCipheriv('aes-192-ccm', key, nonce, {
      authTagLength: 16,
    });
    const plaintext = 'Hello world';
    cipher.setAAD(aad, {
      plaintextLength: Buffer.byteLength(plaintext),
    });
    const ciphertext = cipher.update(plaintext, 'utf8');
    cipher.final();
    const tag = cipher.getAuthTag();
    
    // Now transmit { ciphertext, nonce, tag }.
    
    const decipher = createDecipheriv('aes-192-ccm', key, nonce, {
      authTagLength: 16,
    });
    decipher.setAuthTag(tag);
    decipher.setAAD(aad, {
      plaintextLength: ciphertext.length,
    });
    const receivedPlaintext = decipher.update(ciphertext, null, 'utf8');
    
    try {
      decipher.final();
    } catch (err) {
      throw new Error('Authentication failed!', { cause: err });
    }
    
    console.log(receivedPlaintext);const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    const {
      createCipheriv,
      createDecipheriv,
      randomBytes,
    } = require('node:crypto');
    
    const key = 'keykeykeykeykeykeykeykey';
    const nonce = randomBytes(12);
    
    const aad = Buffer.from('0123456789', 'hex');
    
    const cipher = createCipheriv('aes-192-ccm', key, nonce, {
      authTagLength: 16,
    });
    const plaintext = 'Hello world';
    cipher.setAAD(aad, {
      plaintextLength: Buffer.byteLength(plaintext),
    });
    const ciphertext = cipher.update(plaintext, 'utf8');
    cipher.final();
    const tag = cipher.getAuthTag();
    
    // Now transmit { ciphertext, nonce, tag }.
    
    const decipher = createDecipheriv('aes-192-ccm', key, nonce, {
      authTagLength: 16,
    });
    decipher.setAuthTag(tag);
    decipher.setAAD(aad, {
      plaintextLength: ciphertext.length,
    });
    const receivedPlaintext = decipher.update(ciphertext, null, 'utf8');
    
    try {
      decipher.final();
    } catch (err) {
      throw new Error('Authentication failed!', { cause: err });
    }
    
    console.log(receivedPlaintext);copy

#### FIPS mode#

When using OpenSSL 3, Node.js supports FIPS 140-2 when used with an
appropriate OpenSSL 3 provider, such as the [FIPS provider from OpenSSL
3](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man3.0/man7/crypto.html#FIPS-provider) which
can be installed by following the instructions in [OpenSSL's FIPS README
file](https://github.com/openssl/openssl/blob/openssl-3.0/README-FIPS.md).

For FIPS support in Node.js you will need:

  * A correctly installed OpenSSL 3 FIPS provider.
  * An OpenSSL 3 [FIPS module configuration file](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man3.0/man5/fips_config.html).
  * An OpenSSL 3 configuration file that references the FIPS module configuration file.

Node.js will need to be configured with an OpenSSL configuration file that
points to the FIPS provider. An example configuration file looks like this:

    
    
    nodejs_conf = nodejs_init
    
    .include /<absolute path>/fipsmodule.cnf
    
    [nodejs_init]
    providers = provider_sect
    
    [provider_sect]
    default = default_sect
    # The fips section name should match the section name inside the
    # included fipsmodule.cnf.
    fips = fips_sect
    
    [default_sect]
    activate = 1 copy

where `fipsmodule.cnf` is the FIPS module configuration file generated from
the FIPS provider installation step:

    
    
    openssl fipsinstall copy

Set the `OPENSSL_CONF` environment variable to point to your configuration
file and `OPENSSL_MODULES` to the location of the FIPS provider dynamic
library. e.g.

    
    
    export OPENSSL_CONF=/<path to configuration file>/nodejs.cnf
    export OPENSSL_MODULES=/<path to openssl lib>/ossl-modules copy

FIPS mode can then be enabled in Node.js either by:

  * Starting Node.js with `--enable-fips` or `--force-fips` command line flags.
  * Programmatically calling `crypto.setFips(true)`.

Optionally FIPS mode can be enabled in Node.js via the OpenSSL configuration
file. e.g.

    
    
    nodejs_conf = nodejs_init
    
    .include /<absolute path>/fipsmodule.cnf
    
    [nodejs_init]
    providers = provider_sect
    alg_section = algorithm_sect
    
    [provider_sect]
    default = default_sect
    # The fips section name should match the section name inside the
    # included fipsmodule.cnf.
    fips = fips_sect
    
    [default_sect]
    activate = 1
    
    [algorithm_sect]
    default_properties = fips=yes copy

### Crypto constants#

The following constants exported by `crypto.constants` apply to various uses
of the `node:crypto`, `node:tls`, and `node:https` modules and are generally
specific to OpenSSL.

#### OpenSSL options#

See the [list of SSL OP
Flags](https://wiki.openssl.org/index.php/List_of_SSL_OP_Flags#Table_of_Options)
for details.

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`SSL_OP_ALL` | Applies multiple bug workarounds within OpenSSL. See <https://www.openssl.org/docs/man3.0/man3/SSL_CTX_set_options.html> for detail.  
`SSL_OP_ALLOW_NO_DHE_KEX` | Instructs OpenSSL to allow a non-[EC]DHE-based key exchange mode for TLS v1.3  
`SSL_OP_ALLOW_UNSAFE_LEGACY_RENEGOTIATION` | Allows legacy insecure renegotiation between OpenSSL and unpatched clients or servers. See <https://www.openssl.org/docs/man3.0/man3/SSL_CTX_set_options.html>.  
`SSL_OP_CIPHER_SERVER_PREFERENCE` | Attempts to use the server's preferences instead of the client's when selecting a cipher. Behavior depends on protocol version. See <https://www.openssl.org/docs/man3.0/man3/SSL_CTX_set_options.html>.  
`SSL_OP_CISCO_ANYCONNECT` | Instructs OpenSSL to use Cisco's version identifier of DTLS_BAD_VER.  
`SSL_OP_COOKIE_EXCHANGE` | Instructs OpenSSL to turn on cookie exchange.  
`SSL_OP_CRYPTOPRO_TLSEXT_BUG` | Instructs OpenSSL to add server-hello extension from an early version of the cryptopro draft.  
`SSL_OP_DONT_INSERT_EMPTY_FRAGMENTS` | Instructs OpenSSL to disable a SSL 3.0/TLS 1.0 vulnerability workaround added in OpenSSL 0.9.6d.  
`SSL_OP_LEGACY_SERVER_CONNECT` | Allows initial connection to servers that do not support RI.  
`SSL_OP_NO_COMPRESSION` | Instructs OpenSSL to disable support for SSL/TLS compression.  
`SSL_OP_NO_ENCRYPT_THEN_MAC` | Instructs OpenSSL to disable encrypt-then-MAC.  
`SSL_OP_NO_QUERY_MTU` |   
`SSL_OP_NO_RENEGOTIATION` | Instructs OpenSSL to disable renegotiation.  
`SSL_OP_NO_SESSION_RESUMPTION_ON_RENEGOTIATION` | Instructs OpenSSL to always start a new session when performing renegotiation.  
`SSL_OP_NO_SSLv2` | Instructs OpenSSL to turn off SSL v2  
`SSL_OP_NO_SSLv3` | Instructs OpenSSL to turn off SSL v3  
`SSL_OP_NO_TICKET` | Instructs OpenSSL to disable use of RFC4507bis tickets.  
`SSL_OP_NO_TLSv1` | Instructs OpenSSL to turn off TLS v1  
`SSL_OP_NO_TLSv1_1` | Instructs OpenSSL to turn off TLS v1.1  
`SSL_OP_NO_TLSv1_2` | Instructs OpenSSL to turn off TLS v1.2  
`SSL_OP_NO_TLSv1_3` | Instructs OpenSSL to turn off TLS v1.3  
`SSL_OP_PRIORITIZE_CHACHA` | Instructs OpenSSL server to prioritize ChaCha20-Poly1305 when the client does. This option has no effect if `SSL_OP_CIPHER_SERVER_PREFERENCE` is not enabled.  
`SSL_OP_TLS_ROLLBACK_BUG` | Instructs OpenSSL to disable version rollback attack detection.  
  
#### OpenSSL engine constants#

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`ENGINE_METHOD_RSA` | Limit engine usage to RSA  
`ENGINE_METHOD_DSA` | Limit engine usage to DSA  
`ENGINE_METHOD_DH` | Limit engine usage to DH  
`ENGINE_METHOD_RAND` | Limit engine usage to RAND  
`ENGINE_METHOD_EC` | Limit engine usage to EC  
`ENGINE_METHOD_CIPHERS` | Limit engine usage to CIPHERS  
`ENGINE_METHOD_DIGESTS` | Limit engine usage to DIGESTS  
`ENGINE_METHOD_PKEY_METHS` | Limit engine usage to PKEY_METHS  
`ENGINE_METHOD_PKEY_ASN1_METHS` | Limit engine usage to PKEY_ASN1_METHS  
`ENGINE_METHOD_ALL` |   
`ENGINE_METHOD_NONE` |   
  
#### Other OpenSSL constants#

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`DH_CHECK_P_NOT_SAFE_PRIME` |   
`DH_CHECK_P_NOT_PRIME` |   
`DH_UNABLE_TO_CHECK_GENERATOR` |   
`DH_NOT_SUITABLE_GENERATOR` |   
`RSA_PKCS1_PADDING` |   
`RSA_SSLV23_PADDING` |   
`RSA_NO_PADDING` |   
`RSA_PKCS1_OAEP_PADDING` |   
`RSA_X931_PADDING` |   
`RSA_PKCS1_PSS_PADDING` |   
`RSA_PSS_SALTLEN_DIGEST` | Sets the salt length for `RSA_PKCS1_PSS_PADDING` to the digest size when signing or verifying.  
`RSA_PSS_SALTLEN_MAX_SIGN` | Sets the salt length for `RSA_PKCS1_PSS_PADDING` to the maximum permissible value when signing data.  
`RSA_PSS_SALTLEN_AUTO` | Causes the salt length for `RSA_PKCS1_PSS_PADDING` to be determined automatically when verifying a signature.  
`POINT_CONVERSION_COMPRESSED` |   
`POINT_CONVERSION_UNCOMPRESSED` |   
`POINT_CONVERSION_HYBRID` |   
  
#### Node.js crypto constants#

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`defaultCoreCipherList` | Specifies the built-in default cipher list used by Node.js.  
`defaultCipherList` | Specifies the active default cipher list used by the current Node.js process.  
  
## Debugger#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

Node.js includes a command-line debugging utility. The Node.js debugger client
is not a full-featured debugger, but simple stepping and inspection are
possible.

To use it, start Node.js with the `inspect` argument followed by the path to
the script to debug.

    
    
    $ node inspect myscript.js
    < Debugger listening on ws://127.0.0.1:9229/621111f9-ffcb-4e82-b718-48a145fa5db8
    < For help, see: https://nodejs.org/en/docs/inspector
    <
    connecting to 127.0.0.1:9229 ... ok
    < Debugger attached.
    <
     ok
    Break on start in myscript.js:2
      1 // myscript.js
    > 2 global.x = 5;
      3 setTimeout(() => {
      4   debugger;
    debug> copy

The debugger automatically breaks on the first executable line. To instead run
until the first breakpoint (specified by a
[`debugger`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/debugger) statement), set the
`NODE_INSPECT_RESUME_ON_START` environment variable to `1`.

    
    
    $ cat myscript.js
    // myscript.js
    global.x = 5;
    setTimeout(() => {
      debugger;
      console.log('world');
    }, 1000);
    console.log('hello');
    $ NODE_INSPECT_RESUME_ON_START=1 node inspect myscript.js
    < Debugger listening on ws://127.0.0.1:9229/f1ed133e-7876-495b-83ae-c32c6fc319c2
    < For help, see: https://nodejs.org/en/docs/inspector
    <
    connecting to 127.0.0.1:9229 ... ok
    < Debugger attached.
    <
    < hello
    <
    break in myscript.js:4
      2 global.x = 5;
      3 setTimeout(() => {
    > 4   debugger;
      5   console.log('world');
      6 }, 1000);
    debug> next
    break in myscript.js:5
      3 setTimeout(() => {
      4   debugger;
    > 5   console.log('world');
      6 }, 1000);
      7 console.log('hello');
    debug> repl
    Press Ctrl+C to leave debug repl
    > x
    5
    > 2 + 2
    4
    debug> next
    < world
    <
    break in myscript.js:6
      4   debugger;
      5   console.log('world');
    > 6 }, 1000);
      7 console.log('hello');
      8
    debug> .exit
    $ copy

The `repl` command allows code to be evaluated remotely. The `next` command
steps to the next line. Type `help` to see what other commands are available.

Pressing `enter` without typing a command will repeat the previous debugger
command.

### Watchers#

It is possible to watch expression and variable values while debugging. On
every breakpoint, each expression from the watchers list will be evaluated in
the current context and displayed immediately before the breakpoint's source
code listing.

To begin watching an expression, type `watch('my_expression')`. The command
`watchers` will print the active watchers. To remove a watcher, type
`unwatch('my_expression')`.

### Command reference#

#### Stepping#

  * `cont`, `c`: Continue execution
  * `next`, `n`: Step next
  * `step`, `s`: Step in
  * `out`, `o`: Step out
  * `pause`: Pause running code (like pause button in Developer Tools)

#### Breakpoints#

  * `setBreakpoint()`, `sb()`: Set breakpoint on current line
  * `setBreakpoint(line)`, `sb(line)`: Set breakpoint on specific line
  * `setBreakpoint('fn()')`, `sb(...)`: Set breakpoint on a first statement in function's body
  * `setBreakpoint('script.js', 1)`, `sb(...)`: Set breakpoint on first line of `script.js`
  * `setBreakpoint('script.js', 1, 'num < 4')`, `sb(...)`: Set conditional breakpoint on first line of `script.js` that only breaks when `num < 4` evaluates to `true`
  * `clearBreakpoint('script.js', 1)`, `cb(...)`: Clear breakpoint in `script.js` on line 1

It is also possible to set a breakpoint in a file (module) that is not loaded
yet:

    
    
    $ node inspect main.js
    < Debugger listening on ws://127.0.0.1:9229/48a5b28a-550c-471b-b5e1-d13dd7165df9
    < For help, see: https://nodejs.org/en/docs/inspector
    <
    connecting to 127.0.0.1:9229 ... ok
    < Debugger attached.
    <
    Break on start in main.js:1
    > 1 const mod = require('./mod.js');
      2 mod.hello();
      3 mod.hello();
    debug> setBreakpoint('mod.js', 22)
    Warning: script 'mod.js' was not loaded yet.
    debug> c
    break in mod.js:22
     20 // USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
     21
    >22 exports.hello = function() {
     23   return 'hello from module';
     24 };
    debug> copy

It is also possible to set a conditional breakpoint that only breaks when a
given expression evaluates to `true`:

    
    
    $ node inspect main.js
    < Debugger listening on ws://127.0.0.1:9229/ce24daa8-3816-44d4-b8ab-8273c8a66d35
    < For help, see: https://nodejs.org/en/docs/inspector
    <
    connecting to 127.0.0.1:9229 ... ok
    < Debugger attached.
    Break on start in main.js:7
      5 }
      6
    > 7 addOne(10);
      8 addOne(-1);
      9
    debug> setBreakpoint('main.js', 4, 'num < 0')
      1 'use strict';
      2
      3 function addOne(num) {
    > 4   return num + 1;
      5 }
      6
      7 addOne(10);
      8 addOne(-1);
      9
    debug> cont
    break in main.js:4
      2
      3 function addOne(num) {
    > 4   return num + 1;
      5 }
      6
    debug> exec('num')
    -1
    debug> copy

#### Information#

  * `backtrace`, `bt`: Print backtrace of current execution frame
  * `list(5)`: List scripts source code with 5 line context (5 lines before and after)
  * `watch(expr)`: Add expression to watch list
  * `unwatch(expr)`: Remove expression from watch list
  * `unwatch(index)`: Remove expression at specific index from watch list
  * `watchers`: List all watchers and their values (automatically listed on each breakpoint)
  * `repl`: Open debugger's repl for evaluation in debugging script's context
  * `exec expr`, `p expr`: Execute an expression in debugging script's context and print its value
  * `profile`: Start CPU profiling session
  * `profileEnd`: Stop current CPU profiling session
  * `profiles`: List all completed CPU profiling sessions
  * `profiles[n].save(filepath = 'node.cpuprofile')`: Save CPU profiling session to disk as JSON
  * `takeHeapSnapshot(filepath = 'node.heapsnapshot')`: Take a heap snapshot and save to disk as JSON

#### Execution control#

  * `run`: Run script (automatically runs on debugger's start)
  * `restart`: Restart script
  * `kill`: Kill script

#### Various#

  * `scripts`: List all loaded scripts
  * `version`: Display V8's version

### Advanced usage#

#### V8 inspector integration for Node.js#

V8 Inspector integration allows attaching Chrome DevTools to Node.js instances
for debugging and profiling. It uses the [Chrome DevTools
Protocol](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol/).

V8 Inspector can be enabled by passing the `--inspect` flag when starting a
Node.js application. It is also possible to supply a custom port with that
flag, e.g. `--inspect=9222` will accept DevTools connections on port 9222.

Using the `--inspect` flag will execute the code immediately before debugger
is connected. This means that the code will start running before you can start
debugging, which might not be ideal if you want to debug from the very
beginning.

In such cases, you have two alternatives:

  1. `--inspect-wait` flag: This flag will wait for debugger to be attached before executing the code. This allows you to start debugging right from the beginning of the execution.
  2. `--inspect-brk` flag: Unlike `--inspect`, this flag will break on the first line of the code as soon as debugger is attached. This is useful when you want to debug the code step by step from the very beginning, without any code execution prior to debugging.

So, when deciding between `--inspect`, `--inspect-wait`, and `--inspect-brk`,
consider whether you want the code to start executing immediately, wait for
debugger to be attached before execution, or break on the first line for step-
by-step debugging.

    
    
    $ node --inspect index.js
    Debugger listening on ws://127.0.0.1:9229/dc9010dd-f8b8-4ac5-a510-c1a114ec7d29
    For help, see: https://nodejs.org/en/docs/inspector copy

(In the example above, the UUID dc9010dd-f8b8-4ac5-a510-c1a114ec7d29 at the
end of the URL is generated on the fly, it varies in different debugging
sessions.)

If the Chrome browser is older than 66.0.3345.0, use `inspector.html` instead
of `js_app.html` in the above URL.

Chrome DevTools doesn't support debugging [worker
threads](worker_threads.html) yet.
[ndb](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/ndb/) can be used to debug them.

## Deprecated APIs#

Node.js APIs might be deprecated for any of the following reasons:

  * Use of the API is unsafe.
  * An improved alternative API is available.
  * Breaking changes to the API are expected in a future major release.

Node.js uses four kinds of deprecations:

  * Documentation-only
  * Application (non-`node_modules` code only)
  * Runtime (all code)
  * End-of-Life

A Documentation-only deprecation is one that is expressed only within the
Node.js API docs. These generate no side-effects while running Node.js. Some
Documentation-only deprecations trigger a runtime warning when launched with
`--pending-deprecation` flag (or its alternative, `NODE_PENDING_DEPRECATION=1`
environment variable), similarly to Runtime deprecations below. Documentation-
only deprecations that support that flag are explicitly labeled as such in the
list of Deprecated APIs.

An Application deprecation for only non-`node_modules` code will, by default,
generate a process warning that will be printed to `stderr` the first time the
deprecated API is used in code that's not loaded from `node_modules`. When the
`--throw-deprecation` command-line flag is used, a Runtime deprecation will
cause an error to be thrown. When `--pending-deprecation` is used, warnings
will also be emitted for code loaded from `node_modules`.

A runtime deprecation for all code is similar to the runtime deprecation for
non-`node_modules` code, except that it also emits a warning for code loaded
from `node_modules`.

An End-of-Life deprecation is used when functionality is or will soon be
removed from Node.js.

### Revoking deprecations#

Occasionally, the deprecation of an API might be reversed. In such situations,
this document will be updated with information relevant to the decision.
However, the deprecation identifier will not be modified.

### List of deprecated APIs#

#### DEP0001: `http.OutgoingMessage.prototype.flush`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v1.6.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`OutgoingMessage.prototype.flush()` has been removed. Use
`OutgoingMessage.prototype.flushHeaders()` instead.

#### DEP0002: `require('_linklist')`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.12.0 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v5.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `_linklist` module is deprecated. Please use a userland alternative.

#### DEP0003: `_writableState.buffer`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.11.15 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `_writableState.buffer` has been removed. Use `_writableState.getBuffer()`
instead.

#### DEP0004: `CryptoStream.prototype.readyState`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.4.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `CryptoStream.prototype.readyState` property was removed.

#### DEP0005: `Buffer()` constructor#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v6.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Application (non-`node_modules` code only)

The `Buffer()` function and `new Buffer()` constructor are deprecated due to
API usability issues that can lead to accidental security issues.

As an alternative, use one of the following methods of constructing `Buffer`
objects:

  * `Buffer.alloc(size[, fill[, encoding]])`: Create a `Buffer` with _initialized_ memory.
  * `Buffer.allocUnsafe(size)`: Create a `Buffer` with _uninitialized_ memory.
  * `Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow(size)`: Create a `Buffer` with _uninitialized_ memory.
  * `Buffer.from(array)`: Create a `Buffer` with a copy of `array`
  * `Buffer.from(arrayBuffer[, byteOffset[, length]])` \- Create a `Buffer` that wraps the given `arrayBuffer`.
  * `Buffer.from(buffer)`: Create a `Buffer` that copies `buffer`.
  * `Buffer.from(string[, encoding])`: Create a `Buffer` that copies `string`.

Without `--pending-deprecation`, runtime warnings occur only for code not in
`node_modules`. This means there will not be deprecation warnings for
`Buffer()` usage in dependencies. With `--pending-deprecation`, a runtime
warning results no matter where the `Buffer()` usage occurs.

#### DEP0006: `child_process` `options.customFds`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.11.14 | Runtime deprecation.  
v0.5.10 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

Within the [`child_process`](child_process.html) module's `spawn()`, `fork()`,
and `exec()` methods, the `options.customFds` option is deprecated. The
`options.stdio` option should be used instead.

#### DEP0007: Replace `cluster` `worker.suicide` with
`worker.exitedAfterDisconnect`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v7.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v6.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

In an earlier version of the Node.js `cluster`, a boolean property with the
name `suicide` was added to the `Worker` object. The intent of this property
was to provide an indication of how and why the `Worker` instance exited. In
Node.js 6.0.0, the old property was deprecated and replaced with a new
`worker.exitedAfterDisconnect` property. The old property name did not
precisely describe the actual semantics and was unnecessarily emotion-laden.

#### DEP0008: `require('node:constants')`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.12.0 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v6.3.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The `node:constants` module is deprecated. When requiring access to constants
relevant to specific Node.js builtin modules, developers should instead refer
to the `constants` property exposed by the relevant module. For instance,
`require('node:fs').constants` and `require('node:os').constants`.

#### DEP0009: `crypto.pbkdf2` without digest#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | End-of-Life (for `digest === null`).  
v11.0.0 | Runtime deprecation (for `digest === null`).  
v8.0.0 | End-of-Life (for `digest === undefined`).  
v6.12.0 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v6.0.0 | Runtime deprecation (for `digest === undefined`).  
  
Type: End-of-Life

Use of the `crypto.pbkdf2()` API without specifying a digest was deprecated in
Node.js 6.0 because the method defaulted to using the non-recommended `'SHA1'`
digest. Previously, a deprecation warning was printed. Starting in Node.js
8.0.0, calling `crypto.pbkdf2()` or `crypto.pbkdf2Sync()` with `digest` set to
`undefined` will throw a `TypeError`.

Beginning in Node.js v11.0.0, calling these functions with `digest` set to
`null` would print a deprecation warning to align with the behavior when
`digest` is `undefined`.

Now, however, passing either `undefined` or `null` will throw a `TypeError`.

#### DEP0010: `crypto.createCredentials`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.11.13 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `crypto.createCredentials()` API was removed. Please use
`tls.createSecureContext()` instead.

#### DEP0011: `crypto.Credentials`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.11.13 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `crypto.Credentials` class was removed. Please use `tls.SecureContext`
instead.

#### DEP0012: `Domain.dispose`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.11.7 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`Domain.dispose()` has been removed. Recover from failed I/O actions
explicitly via error event handlers set on the domain instead.

#### DEP0013: `fs` asynchronous function without callback#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v7.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

Calling an asynchronous function without a callback throws a `TypeError` in
Node.js 10.0.0 onwards. See <https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/12562>.

#### DEP0014: `fs.read` legacy String interface#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.1.96 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `fs.read()` legacy `String` interface is deprecated. Use the `Buffer` API
as mentioned in the documentation instead.

#### DEP0015: `fs.readSync` legacy String interface#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.1.96 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `fs.readSync()` legacy `String` interface is deprecated. Use the `Buffer`
API as mentioned in the documentation instead.

#### DEP0016: `GLOBAL`/`root`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.12.0 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v6.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `GLOBAL` and `root` aliases for the `global` property were deprecated in
Node.js 6.0.0 and have since been removed.

#### DEP0017: `Intl.v8BreakIterator`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v7.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`Intl.v8BreakIterator` was a non-standard extension and has been removed. See
[`Intl.Segmenter`](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-segmenter).

#### DEP0018: Unhandled promise rejections#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v7.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

Unhandled promise rejections are deprecated. By default, promise rejections
that are not handled terminate the Node.js process with a non-zero exit code.
To change the way Node.js treats unhandled rejections, use the `--unhandled-
rejections` command-line option.

#### DEP0019: `require('.')` resolved outside directory#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | Removed functionality.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v1.8.1 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

In certain cases, `require('.')` could resolve outside the package directory.
This behavior has been removed.

#### DEP0020: `Server.connections`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | Server.connections has been removed.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.9.7 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `Server.connections` property was deprecated in Node.js v0.9.7 and has
been removed. Please use the `Server.getConnections()` method instead.

#### DEP0021: `Server.listenFD`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.7.12 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `Server.listenFD()` method was deprecated and removed. Please use
`Server.listen({fd: <number>})` instead.

#### DEP0022: `os.tmpDir()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v7.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `os.tmpDir()` API was deprecated in Node.js 7.0.0 and has since been
removed. Please use `os.tmpdir()` instead.

#### DEP0023: `os.getNetworkInterfaces()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.6.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `os.getNetworkInterfaces()` method is deprecated. Please use the
`os.networkInterfaces()` method instead.

#### DEP0024: `REPLServer.prototype.convertToContext()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v7.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `REPLServer.prototype.convertToContext()` API has been removed.

#### DEP0025: `require('node:sys')`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v1.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

The `node:sys` module is deprecated. Please use the [`util`](util.html) module
instead.

#### DEP0026: `util.print()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.11.3 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`util.print()` has been removed. Please use `console.log()` instead.

#### DEP0027: `util.puts()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.11.3 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`util.puts()` has been removed. Please use `console.log()` instead.

#### DEP0028: `util.debug()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.11.3 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`util.debug()` has been removed. Please use `console.error()` instead.

#### DEP0029: `util.error()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.11.3 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`util.error()` has been removed. Please use `console.error()` instead.

#### DEP0030: `SlowBuffer`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.12.0 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v6.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The `SlowBuffer` class is deprecated. Please use
`Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow(size)` instead.

#### DEP0031: `ecdh.setPublicKey()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.12.0 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v5.2.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The `ecdh.setPublicKey()` method is now deprecated as its inclusion in the API
is not useful.

#### DEP0032: `node:domain` module#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v1.4.2 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The [`domain`](domain.html) module is deprecated and should not be used.

#### DEP0033: `EventEmitter.listenerCount()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v3.2.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The `events.listenerCount(emitter, eventName)` API is deprecated. Please use
`emitter.listenerCount(eventName)` instead.

#### DEP0034: `fs.exists(path, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v1.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The `fs.exists(path, callback)` API is deprecated. Please use `fs.stat()` or
`fs.access()` instead.

#### DEP0035: `fs.lchmod(path, mode, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.4.7 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The `fs.lchmod(path, mode, callback)` API is deprecated.

#### DEP0036: `fs.lchmodSync(path, mode)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.4.7 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The `fs.lchmodSync(path, mode)` API is deprecated.

#### DEP0037: `fs.lchown(path, uid, gid, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.6.0 | Deprecation revoked.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.4.7 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Deprecation revoked

The `fs.lchown(path, uid, gid, callback)` API was deprecated. The deprecation
was revoked because the requisite supporting APIs were added in libuv.

#### DEP0038: `fs.lchownSync(path, uid, gid)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.6.0 | Deprecation revoked.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.4.7 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Deprecation revoked

The `fs.lchownSync(path, uid, gid)` API was deprecated. The deprecation was
revoked because the requisite supporting APIs were added in libuv.

#### DEP0039: `require.extensions`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.10.6 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The `require.extensions` property is deprecated.

#### DEP0040: `node:punycode` module#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v16.6.0 | Added support for `--pending-deprecation`.  
v7.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

The [`punycode`](punycode.html) module is deprecated. Please use a userland
alternative instead.

#### DEP0041: `NODE_REPL_HISTORY_FILE` environment variable#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v3.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `NODE_REPL_HISTORY_FILE` environment variable was removed. Please use
`NODE_REPL_HISTORY` instead.

#### DEP0042: `tls.CryptoStream`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v0.11.3 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `tls.CryptoStream` class was removed. Please use `tls.TLSSocket` instead.

#### DEP0043: `tls.SecurePair`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v6.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
v0.11.15 | Deprecation revoked.  
v0.11.3 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The `tls.SecurePair` class is deprecated. Please use `tls.TLSSocket` instead.

#### DEP0044: `util.isArray()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v4.0.0, v3.3.1 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

The `util.isArray()` API is deprecated. Please use `Array.isArray()` instead.

#### DEP0045: `util.isBoolean()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life deprecation.  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v4.0.0, v3.3.1 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `util.isBoolean()` API has been removed. Please use `typeof arg ===
'boolean'` instead.

#### DEP0046: `util.isBuffer()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life deprecation.  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v4.0.0, v3.3.1 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `util.isBuffer()` API has been removed. Please use `Buffer.isBuffer()`
instead.

#### DEP0047: `util.isDate()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life deprecation.  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v4.0.0, v3.3.1 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `util.isDate()` API has been removed. Please use `arg instanceof Date`
instead.

#### DEP0048: `util.isError()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life deprecation.  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v4.0.0, v3.3.1 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `util.isError()` API has been removed. Please use
`Object.prototype.toString(arg) === '[object Error]' || arg instanceof Error`
instead.

#### DEP0049: `util.isFunction()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life deprecation.  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v4.0.0, v3.3.1 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `util.isFunction()` API has been removed. Please use `typeof arg ===
'function'` instead.

#### DEP0050: `util.isNull()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life deprecation.  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v4.0.0, v3.3.1 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `util.isNull()` API has been removed. Please use `arg === null` instead.

#### DEP0051: `util.isNullOrUndefined()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life deprecation.  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v4.0.0, v3.3.1 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `util.isNullOrUndefined()` API has been removed. Please use `arg === null
|| arg === undefined` instead.

#### DEP0052: `util.isNumber()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life deprecation.  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v4.0.0, v3.3.1 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `util.isNumber()` API has been removed. Please use `typeof arg ===
'number'` instead.

#### DEP0053: `util.isObject()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life deprecation.  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v4.0.0, v3.3.1 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `util.isObject()` API has been removed. Please use `arg && typeof arg ===
'object'` instead.

#### DEP0054: `util.isPrimitive()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life deprecation.  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v4.0.0, v3.3.1 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `util.isPrimitive()` API has been removed. Please use `arg === null ||
(typeof arg !=='object' && typeof arg !== 'function')` instead.

#### DEP0055: `util.isRegExp()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life deprecation.  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v4.0.0, v3.3.1 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `util.isRegExp()` API has been removed. Please use `arg instanceof RegExp`
instead.

#### DEP0056: `util.isString()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life deprecation.  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v4.0.0, v3.3.1 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `util.isString()` API has been removed. Please use `typeof arg ===
'string'` instead.

#### DEP0057: `util.isSymbol()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life deprecation.  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v4.0.0, v3.3.1 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `util.isSymbol()` API has been removed. Please use `typeof arg ===
'symbol'` instead.

#### DEP0058: `util.isUndefined()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life deprecation.  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0, v4.8.6 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v4.0.0, v3.3.1 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `util.isUndefined()` API has been removed. Please use `arg === undefined`
instead.

#### DEP0059: `util.log()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life deprecation.  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v6.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `util.log()` API has been removed because it's an unmaintained legacy API
that was exposed to user land by accident. Instead, consider the following
alternatives based on your specific needs:

  * **Third-Party Logging Libraries**

  * **Use`console.log(new Date().toLocaleString(), message)`**

By adopting one of these alternatives, you can transition away from
`util.log()` and choose a logging strategy that aligns with the specific
requirements and complexity of your application.

#### DEP0060: `util._extend()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v6.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

The `util._extend()` API is deprecated because it's an unmaintained legacy API
that was exposed to user land by accident. Please use `target =
Object.assign(target, source)` instead.

#### DEP0061: `fs.SyncWriteStream`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v8.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v7.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `fs.SyncWriteStream` class was never intended to be a publicly accessible
API and has been removed. No alternative API is available. Please use a
userland alternative.

#### DEP0062: `node --debug`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v8.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`--debug` activates the legacy V8 debugger interface, which was removed as of
V8 5.8. It is replaced by Inspector which is activated with `--inspect`
instead.

#### DEP0063: `ServerResponse.prototype.writeHeader()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The `node:http` module `ServerResponse.prototype.writeHeader()` API is
deprecated. Please use `ServerResponse.prototype.writeHead()` instead.

The `ServerResponse.prototype.writeHeader()` method was never documented as an
officially supported API.

#### DEP0064: `tls.createSecurePair()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v6.12.0 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v6.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
v0.11.15 | Deprecation revoked.  
v0.11.3 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

The `tls.createSecurePair()` API was deprecated in documentation in Node.js
0.11.3. Users should use `tls.Socket` instead.

#### DEP0065: `repl.REPL_MODE_MAGIC` and `NODE_REPL_MODE=magic`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v8.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `node:repl` module's `REPL_MODE_MAGIC` constant, used for `replMode`
option, has been removed. Its behavior has been functionally identical to that
of `REPL_MODE_SLOPPY` since Node.js 6.0.0, when V8 5.0 was imported. Please
use `REPL_MODE_SLOPPY` instead.

The `NODE_REPL_MODE` environment variable is used to set the underlying
`replMode` of an interactive `node` session. Its value, `magic`, is also
removed. Please use `sloppy` instead.

#### DEP0066: `OutgoingMessage.prototype._headers,
OutgoingMessage.prototype._headerNames`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v8.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

The `node:http` module `OutgoingMessage.prototype._headers` and
`OutgoingMessage.prototype._headerNames` properties are deprecated. Use one of
the public methods (e.g. `OutgoingMessage.prototype.getHeader()`,
`OutgoingMessage.prototype.getHeaders()`,
`OutgoingMessage.prototype.getHeaderNames()`,
`OutgoingMessage.prototype.getRawHeaderNames()`,
`OutgoingMessage.prototype.hasHeader()`,
`OutgoingMessage.prototype.removeHeader()`,
`OutgoingMessage.prototype.setHeader()`) for working with outgoing headers.

The `OutgoingMessage.prototype._headers` and
`OutgoingMessage.prototype._headerNames` properties were never documented as
officially supported properties.

#### DEP0067: `OutgoingMessage.prototype._renderHeaders`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The `node:http` module `OutgoingMessage.prototype._renderHeaders()` API is
deprecated.

The `OutgoingMessage.prototype._renderHeaders` property was never documented
as an officially supported API.

#### DEP0068: `node debug`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The legacy `node debug` command was removed.  
v8.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`node debug` corresponds to the legacy CLI debugger which has been replaced
with a V8-inspector based CLI debugger available through `node inspect`.

#### DEP0069: `vm.runInDebugContext(string)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v9.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v8.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

DebugContext has been removed in V8 and is not available in Node.js 10+.

DebugContext was an experimental API.

#### DEP0070: `async_hooks.currentId()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v8.2.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`async_hooks.currentId()` was renamed to `async_hooks.executionAsyncId()` for
clarity.

This change was made while `async_hooks` was an experimental API.

#### DEP0071: `async_hooks.triggerId()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v8.2.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`async_hooks.triggerId()` was renamed to `async_hooks.triggerAsyncId()` for
clarity.

This change was made while `async_hooks` was an experimental API.

#### DEP0072: `async_hooks.AsyncResource.triggerId()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v8.2.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`async_hooks.AsyncResource.triggerId()` was renamed to
`async_hooks.AsyncResource.triggerAsyncId()` for clarity.

This change was made while `async_hooks` was an experimental API.

#### DEP0073: Several internal properties of `net.Server`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v9.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

Accessing several internal, undocumented properties of `net.Server` instances
with inappropriate names is deprecated.

As the original API was undocumented and not generally useful for non-internal
code, no replacement API is provided.

#### DEP0074: `REPLServer.bufferedCommand`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v9.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `REPLServer.bufferedCommand` property was deprecated in favor of
`REPLServer.clearBufferedCommand()`.

#### DEP0075: `REPLServer.parseREPLKeyword()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v9.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`REPLServer.parseREPLKeyword()` was removed from userland visibility.

#### DEP0076: `tls.parseCertString()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v9.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v8.6.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`tls.parseCertString()` was a trivial parsing helper that was made public by
mistake. While it was supposed to parse certificate subject and issuer
strings, it never handled multi-value Relative Distinguished Names correctly.

Earlier versions of this document suggested using `querystring.parse()` as an
alternative to `tls.parseCertString()`. However, `querystring.parse()` also
does not handle all certificate subjects correctly and should not be used.

#### DEP0077: `Module._debug()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

`Module._debug()` is deprecated.

The `Module._debug()` function was never documented as an officially supported
API.

#### DEP0078: `REPLServer.turnOffEditorMode()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v9.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`REPLServer.turnOffEditorMode()` was removed from userland visibility.

#### DEP0079: Custom inspection function on objects via `.inspect()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v10.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v8.7.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

Using a property named `inspect` on an object to specify a custom inspection
function for `util.inspect()` is deprecated. Use `util.inspect.custom`
instead. For backward compatibility with Node.js prior to version 6.4.0, both
can be specified.

#### DEP0080: `path._makeLong()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The internal `path._makeLong()` was not intended for public use. However,
userland modules have found it useful. The internal API is deprecated and
replaced with an identical, public `path.toNamespacedPath()` method.

#### DEP0081: `fs.truncate()` using a file descriptor#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

`fs.truncate()` `fs.truncateSync()` usage with a file descriptor is
deprecated. Please use `fs.ftruncate()` or `fs.ftruncateSync()` to work with
file descriptors.

#### DEP0082: `REPLServer.prototype.memory()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v9.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`REPLServer.prototype.memory()` is only necessary for the internal mechanics
of the `REPLServer` itself. Do not use this function.

#### DEP0083: Disabling ECDH by setting `ecdhCurve` to `false`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v9.2.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life.

The `ecdhCurve` option to `tls.createSecureContext()` and `tls.TLSSocket`
could be set to `false` to disable ECDH entirely on the server only. This mode
was deprecated in preparation for migrating to OpenSSL 1.1.0 and consistency
with the client and is now unsupported. Use the `ciphers` parameter instead.

#### DEP0084: requiring bundled internal dependencies#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | This functionality has been removed.  
v10.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

Since Node.js versions 4.4.0 and 5.2.0, several modules only intended for
internal usage were mistakenly exposed to user code through `require()`. These
modules were:

  * `v8/tools/codemap`
  * `v8/tools/consarray`
  * `v8/tools/csvparser`
  * `v8/tools/logreader`
  * `v8/tools/profile_view`
  * `v8/tools/profile`
  * `v8/tools/SourceMap`
  * `v8/tools/splaytree`
  * `v8/tools/tickprocessor-driver`
  * `v8/tools/tickprocessor`
  * `node-inspect/lib/_inspect` (from 7.6.0)
  * `node-inspect/lib/internal/inspect_client` (from 7.6.0)
  * `node-inspect/lib/internal/inspect_repl` (from 7.6.0)

The `v8/*` modules do not have any exports, and if not imported in a specific
order would in fact throw errors. As such there are virtually no legitimate
use cases for importing them through `require()`.

On the other hand, `node-inspect` can be installed locally through a package
manager, as it is published on the npm registry under the same name. No source
code modification is necessary if that is done.

#### DEP0085: AsyncHooks sensitive API#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v9.4.0, v8.10.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The AsyncHooks sensitive API was never documented and had various minor
issues. Use the `AsyncResource` API instead. See
<https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/15572>.

#### DEP0086: Remove `runInAsyncIdScope`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v9.4.0, v8.10.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`runInAsyncIdScope` doesn't emit the `'before'` or `'after'` event and can
thus cause a lot of issues. See <https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/14328>.

#### DEP0089: `require('node:assert')`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.8.0 | Deprecation revoked.  
v9.9.0, v8.13.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Deprecation revoked

Importing assert directly was not recommended as the exposed functions use
loose equality checks. The deprecation was revoked because use of the
`node:assert` module is not discouraged, and the deprecation caused developer
confusion.

#### DEP0090: Invalid GCM authentication tag lengths#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v10.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

Node.js used to support all GCM authentication tag lengths which are accepted
by OpenSSL when calling `decipher.setAuthTag()`. Beginning with Node.js
v11.0.0, only authentication tag lengths of 128, 120, 112, 104, 96, 64, and 32
bits are allowed. Authentication tags of other lengths are invalid per [NIST
SP
800-38D](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-38d.pdf).

#### DEP0091: `crypto.DEFAULT_ENCODING`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v10.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `crypto.DEFAULT_ENCODING` property only existed for compatibility with
Node.js releases prior to versions 0.9.3 and has been removed.

#### DEP0092: Top-level `this` bound to `module.exports`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

Assigning properties to the top-level `this` as an alternative to
`module.exports` is deprecated. Developers should use `exports` or
`module.exports` instead.

#### DEP0093: `crypto.fips` is deprecated and replaced#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v10.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

The `crypto.fips` property is deprecated. Please use `crypto.setFips()` and
`crypto.getFips()` instead.

#### DEP0094: Using `assert.fail()` with more than one argument#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

Using `assert.fail()` with more than one argument is deprecated. Use
`assert.fail()` with only one argument or use a different `node:assert` module
method.

#### DEP0095: `timers.enroll()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

`timers.enroll()` is deprecated. Please use the publicly documented
`setTimeout()` or `setInterval()` instead.

#### DEP0096: `timers.unenroll()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

`timers.unenroll()` is deprecated. Please use the publicly documented
`clearTimeout()` or `clearInterval()` instead.

#### DEP0097: `MakeCallback` with `domain` property#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

Users of `MakeCallback` that add the `domain` property to carry context,
should start using the `async_context` variant of `MakeCallback` or
`CallbackScope`, or the high-level `AsyncResource` class.

#### DEP0098: AsyncHooks embedder `AsyncResource.emitBefore` and
`AsyncResource.emitAfter` APIs#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v10.0.0, v9.6.0, v8.12.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The embedded API provided by AsyncHooks exposes `.emitBefore()` and
`.emitAfter()` methods which are very easy to use incorrectly which can lead
to unrecoverable errors.

Use `asyncResource.runInAsyncScope()` API instead which provides a much safer,
and more convenient, alternative. See
<https://github.com/nodejs/node/pull/18513>.

#### DEP0099: Async context-unaware `node::MakeCallback` C++ APIs#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Compile-time deprecation.  
  
Type: Compile-time

Certain versions of `node::MakeCallback` APIs available to native addons are
deprecated. Please use the versions of the API that accept an `async_context`
parameter.

#### DEP0100: `process.assert()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v10.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v0.3.7 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`process.assert()` is deprecated. Please use the [`assert`](assert.html)
module instead.

This was never a documented feature.

#### DEP0101: `--with-lttng`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `--with-lttng` compile-time option has been removed.

#### DEP0102: Using `noAssert` in `Buffer#(read|write)` operations#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

Using the `noAssert` argument has no functionality anymore. All input is
verified regardless of the value of `noAssert`. Skipping the verification
could lead to hard-to-find errors and crashes.

#### DEP0103: `process.binding('util').is[...]` typechecks#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.9.0 | Superseded by DEP0111.  
v10.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only (supports `--pending-deprecation`)

Using `process.binding()` in general should be avoided. The type checking
methods in particular can be replaced by using `util.types`.

This deprecation has been superseded by the deprecation of the
`process.binding()` API (DEP0111).

#### DEP0104: `process.env` string coercion#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only (supports `--pending-deprecation`)

When assigning a non-string property to `process.env`, the assigned value is
implicitly converted to a string. This behavior is deprecated if the assigned
value is not a string, boolean, or number. In the future, such assignment
might result in a thrown error. Please convert the property to a string before
assigning it to `process.env`.

#### DEP0105: `decipher.finaltol`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v10.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`decipher.finaltol()` has never been documented and was an alias for
`decipher.final()`. This API has been removed, and it is recommended to use
`decipher.final()` instead.

#### DEP0106: `crypto.createCipher` and `crypto.createDecipher`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v11.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v10.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`crypto.createCipher()` and `crypto.createDecipher()` have been removed as
they use a weak key derivation function (MD5 with no salt) and static
initialization vectors. It is recommended to derive a key using
`crypto.pbkdf2()` or `crypto.scrypt()` with random salts and to use
`crypto.createCipheriv()` and `crypto.createDecipheriv()` to obtain the
`Cipher` and `Decipher` objects respectively.

#### DEP0107: `tls.convertNPNProtocols()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v10.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

This was an undocumented helper function not intended for use outside Node.js
core and obsoleted by the removal of NPN (Next Protocol Negotiation) support.

#### DEP0108: `zlib.bytesRead`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v11.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v10.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

Deprecated alias for `zlib.bytesWritten`. This original name was chosen
because it also made sense to interpret the value as the number of bytes read
by the engine, but is inconsistent with other streams in Node.js that expose
values under these names.

#### DEP0109: `http`, `https`, and `tls` support for invalid URLs#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v11.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

Some previously supported (but strictly invalid) URLs were accepted through
the `http.request()`, `http.get()`, `https.request()`, `https.get()`, and
`tls.checkServerIdentity()` APIs because those were accepted by the legacy
`url.parse()` API. The mentioned APIs now use the WHATWG URL parser that
requires strictly valid URLs. Passing an invalid URL is deprecated and support
will be removed in the future.

#### DEP0110: `vm.Script` cached data#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.6.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The `produceCachedData` option is deprecated. Use `script.createCachedData()`
instead.

#### DEP0111: `process.binding()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.12.0 | Added support for `--pending-deprecation`.  
v10.9.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only (supports `--pending-deprecation`)

`process.binding()` is for use by Node.js internal code only.

While `process.binding()` has not reached End-of-Life status in general, it is
unavailable when the permission model is enabled.

#### DEP0112: `dgram` private APIs#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

The `node:dgram` module previously contained several APIs that were never
meant to accessed outside of Node.js core: `Socket.prototype._handle`,
`Socket.prototype._receiving`, `Socket.prototype._bindState`,
`Socket.prototype._queue`, `Socket.prototype._reuseAddr`,
`Socket.prototype._healthCheck()`, `Socket.prototype._stopReceiving()`, and
`dgram._createSocketHandle()`.

#### DEP0113: `Cipher.setAuthTag()`, `Decipher.getAuthTag()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v11.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

`Cipher.setAuthTag()` and `Decipher.getAuthTag()` are no longer available.
They were never documented and would throw when called.

#### DEP0114: `crypto._toBuf()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v11.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `crypto._toBuf()` function was not designed to be used by modules outside
of Node.js core and was removed.

#### DEP0115: `crypto.prng()`, `crypto.pseudoRandomBytes()`, `crypto.rng()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.0.0 | Added documentation-only deprecation with `--pending-deprecation` support.  
  
Type: Documentation-only (supports `--pending-deprecation`)

In recent versions of Node.js, there is no difference between
`crypto.randomBytes()` and `crypto.pseudoRandomBytes()`. The latter is
deprecated along with the undocumented aliases `crypto.prng()` and
`crypto.rng()` in favor of `crypto.randomBytes()` and might be removed in a
future release.

#### DEP0116: Legacy URL API#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0, v18.13.0 | `url.parse()` is deprecated again in DEP0169.  
v15.13.0, v14.17.0 | Deprecation revoked. Status changed to "Legacy".  
v11.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Deprecation revoked

The legacy URL API is deprecated. This includes `url.format()`, `url.parse()`,
`url.resolve()`, and the legacy `urlObject`. Please use the WHATWG URL API
instead.

#### DEP0117: Native crypto handles#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v11.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

Previous versions of Node.js exposed handles to internal native objects
through the `_handle` property of the `Cipher`, `Decipher`, `DiffieHellman`,
`DiffieHellmanGroup`, `ECDH`, `Hash`, `Hmac`, `Sign`, and `Verify` classes.
The `_handle` property has been removed because improper use of the native
object can lead to crashing the application.

#### DEP0118: `dns.lookup()` support for a falsy host name#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

Previous versions of Node.js supported `dns.lookup()` with a falsy host name
like `dns.lookup(false)` due to backward compatibility. This behavior is
undocumented and is thought to be unused in real world apps. It will become an
error in future versions of Node.js.

#### DEP0119: `process.binding('uv').errname()` private API#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only (supports `--pending-deprecation`)

`process.binding('uv').errname()` is deprecated. Please use
`util.getSystemErrorName()` instead.

#### DEP0120: Windows Performance Counter support#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v11.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

Windows Performance Counter support has been removed from Node.js. The
undocumented `COUNTER_NET_SERVER_CONNECTION()`,
`COUNTER_NET_SERVER_CONNECTION_CLOSE()`, `COUNTER_HTTP_SERVER_REQUEST()`,
`COUNTER_HTTP_SERVER_RESPONSE()`, `COUNTER_HTTP_CLIENT_REQUEST()`, and
`COUNTER_HTTP_CLIENT_RESPONSE()` functions have been deprecated.

#### DEP0121: `net._setSimultaneousAccepts()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

The undocumented `net._setSimultaneousAccepts()` function was originally
intended for debugging and performance tuning when using the
`node:child_process` and `node:cluster` modules on Windows. The function is
not generally useful and is being removed. See discussion here:
<https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/18391>

#### DEP0122: `tls` `Server.prototype.setOptions()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

Please use `Server.prototype.setSecureContext()` instead.

#### DEP0123: setting the TLS ServerName to an IP address#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

Setting the TLS ServerName to an IP address is not permitted by [RFC
6066](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6066#section-3). This will be ignored in
a future version.

#### DEP0124: using `REPLServer.rli`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v12.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

This property is a reference to the instance itself.

#### DEP0125: `require('node:_stream_wrap')`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

The `node:_stream_wrap` module is deprecated.

#### DEP0126: `timers.active()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.14.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

The previously undocumented `timers.active()` is deprecated. Please use the
publicly documented `timeout.refresh()` instead. If re-referencing the timeout
is necessary, `timeout.ref()` can be used with no performance impact since
Node.js 10.

#### DEP0127: `timers._unrefActive()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.14.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

The previously undocumented and "private" `timers._unrefActive()` is
deprecated. Please use the publicly documented `timeout.refresh()` instead. If
unreferencing the timeout is necessary, `timeout.unref()` can be used with no
performance impact since Node.js 10.

#### DEP0128: modules with an invalid `main` entry and an `index.js` file#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v12.0.0 | Documentation-only.  
  
Type: Runtime

Modules that have an invalid `main` entry (e.g., `./does-not-exist.js`) and
also have an `index.js` file in the top level directory will resolve the
`index.js` file. That is deprecated and is going to throw an error in future
Node.js versions.

#### DEP0129: `ChildProcess._channel`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v11.14.0 | Documentation-only.  
  
Type: Runtime

The `_channel` property of child process objects returned by `spawn()` and
similar functions is not intended for public use. Use `ChildProcess.channel`
instead.

#### DEP0130: `Module.createRequireFromPath()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | End-of-life.  
v13.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v12.2.0 | Documentation-only.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

Use `module.createRequire()` instead.

#### DEP0131: Legacy HTTP parser#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.0.0 | This feature has been removed.  
v12.22.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v12.3.0 | Documentation-only.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The legacy HTTP parser, used by default in versions of Node.js prior to
12.0.0, is deprecated and has been removed in v13.0.0. Prior to v13.0.0, the
`--http-parser=legacy` command-line flag could be used to revert to using the
legacy parser.

#### DEP0132: `worker.terminate()` with callback#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.5.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

Passing a callback to `worker.terminate()` is deprecated. Use the returned
`Promise` instead, or a listener to the worker's `'exit'` event.

#### DEP0133: `http` `connection`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.12.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

Prefer `response.socket` over `response.connection` and `request.socket` over
`request.connection`.

#### DEP0134: `process._tickCallback`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.12.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only (supports `--pending-deprecation`)

The `process._tickCallback` property was never documented as an officially
supported API.

#### DEP0135: `WriteStream.open()` and `ReadStream.open()` are internal#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

`WriteStream.open()` and `ReadStream.open()` are undocumented internal APIs
that do not make sense to use in userland. File streams should always be
opened through their corresponding factory methods `fs.createWriteStream()`
and `fs.createReadStream()`) or by passing a file descriptor in options.

#### DEP0136: `http` `finished`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.4.0, v12.16.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

`response.finished` indicates whether `response.end()` has been called, not
whether `'finish'` has been emitted and the underlying data is flushed.

Use `response.writableFinished` or `response.writableEnded` accordingly
instead to avoid the ambiguity.

To maintain existing behavior `response.finished` should be replaced with
`response.writableEnded`.

#### DEP0137: Closing fs.FileHandle on garbage collection#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

Allowing a `fs.FileHandle` object to be closed on garbage collection is
deprecated. In the future, doing so might result in a thrown error that will
terminate the process.

Please ensure that all `fs.FileHandle` objects are explicitly closed using
`FileHandle.prototype.close()` when the `fs.FileHandle` is no longer needed:

    
    
    const fsPromises = require('node:fs').promises;
    async function openAndClose() {
      let filehandle;
      try {
        filehandle = await fsPromises.open('thefile.txt', 'r');
      } finally {
        if (filehandle !== undefined)
          await filehandle.close();
      }
    } copy

#### DEP0138: `process.mainModule`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

`process.mainModule` is a CommonJS-only feature while `process` global object
is shared with non-CommonJS environment. Its use within ECMAScript modules is
unsupported.

It is deprecated in favor of `require.main`, because it serves the same
purpose and is only available on CommonJS environment.

#### DEP0139: `process.umask()` with no arguments#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0, v12.19.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

Calling `process.umask()` with no argument causes the process-wide umask to be
written twice. This introduces a race condition between threads, and is a
potential security vulnerability. There is no safe, cross-platform alternative
API.

#### DEP0140: Use `request.destroy()` instead of `request.abort()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.1.0, v13.14.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

Use `request.destroy()` instead of `request.abort()`.

#### DEP0141: `repl.inputStream` and `repl.outputStream`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.3.0 | Documentation-only (supports [`--pending-deprecation`][]).  
  
Type: Documentation-only (supports `--pending-deprecation`)

The `node:repl` module exported the input and output stream twice. Use
`.input` instead of `.inputStream` and `.output` instead of `.outputStream`.

#### DEP0142: `repl._builtinLibs`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.3.0 | Documentation-only (supports [`--pending-deprecation`][]).  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The `node:repl` module exports a `_builtinLibs` property that contains an
array of built-in modules. It was incomplete so far and instead it's better to
rely upon `require('node:module').builtinModules`.

#### DEP0143: `Transform._transformState`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.5.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime `Transform._transformState` will be removed in future versions
where it is no longer required due to simplification of the implementation.

#### DEP0144: `module.parent`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.6.0, v12.19.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only (supports `--pending-deprecation`)

A CommonJS module can access the first module that required it using
`module.parent`. This feature is deprecated because it does not work
consistently in the presence of ECMAScript modules and because it gives an
inaccurate representation of the CommonJS module graph.

Some modules use it to check if they are the entry point of the current
process. Instead, it is recommended to compare `require.main` and `module`:

    
    
    if (require.main === module) {
      // Code section that will run only if current file is the entry point.
    } copy

When looking for the CommonJS modules that have required the current one,
`require.cache` and `module.children` can be used:

    
    
    const moduleParents = Object.values(require.cache)
      .filter((m) => m.children.includes(module)); copy

#### DEP0145: `socket.bufferSize`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.6.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

`socket.bufferSize` is just an alias for `writable.writableLength`.

#### DEP0146: `new crypto.Certificate()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.9.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The `crypto.Certificate()` constructor is deprecated. Use static methods of
`crypto.Certificate()` instead.

#### DEP0147: `fs.rmdir(path, { recursive: true })`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v15.0.0 | Runtime deprecation for permissive behavior.  
v14.14.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

In future versions of Node.js, `recursive` option will be ignored for
`fs.rmdir`, `fs.rmdirSync`, and `fs.promises.rmdir`.

Use `fs.rm(path, { recursive: true, force: true })`, `fs.rmSync(path, {
recursive: true, force: true })` or `fs.promises.rm(path, { recursive: true,
force: true })` instead.

#### DEP0148: Folder mappings in `"exports"` (trailing `"/"`)#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v16.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v15.1.0 | Runtime deprecation for self-referencing imports.  
v14.13.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

Using a trailing `"/"` to define subpath folder mappings in the subpath
exports or subpath imports fields is deprecated. Use subpath patterns instead.

#### DEP0149: `http.IncomingMessage#connection`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only.

Prefer `message.socket` over `message.connection`.

#### DEP0150: Changing the value of `process.config`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v16.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `process.config` property provides access to Node.js compile-time
settings. However, the property is mutable and therefore subject to tampering.
The ability to change the value will be removed in a future version of
Node.js.

#### DEP0151: Main index lookup and extension searching#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v15.8.0, v14.18.0 | Documentation-only deprecation with `--pending-deprecation` support.  
  
Type: Runtime

Previously, `index.js` and extension searching lookups would apply to `import
'pkg'` main entry point resolution, even when resolving ES modules.

With this deprecation, all ES module main entry point resolutions require an
explicit `"exports"` or `"main"` entry with the exact file extension.

#### DEP0152: Extension PerformanceEntry properties#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

The `'gc'`, `'http2'`, and `'http'` <PerformanceEntry> object types have
additional properties assigned to them that provide additional information.
These properties are now available within the standard `detail` property of
the `PerformanceEntry` object. The existing accessors have been deprecated and
should no longer be used.

#### DEP0153: `dns.lookup` and `dnsPromises.lookup` options type coercion#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v17.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v16.8.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

Using a non-nullish non-integer value for `family` option, a non-nullish non-
number value for `hints` option, a non-nullish non-boolean value for `all`
option, or a non-nullish non-boolean value for `verbatim` option in
`dns.lookup()` and `dnsPromises.lookup()` throws an `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE`
error.

#### DEP0154: RSA-PSS generate key pair options#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v16.10.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

The `'hash'` and `'mgf1Hash'` options are replaced with `'hashAlgorithm'` and
`'mgf1HashAlgorithm'`.

#### DEP0155: Trailing slashes in pattern specifier resolutions#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v16.10.0 | Documentation-only deprecation with `--pending-deprecation` support.  
  
Type: Runtime

The remapping of specifiers ending in `"/"` like `import 'pkg/x/'` is
deprecated for package `"exports"` and `"imports"` pattern resolutions.

#### DEP0156: `.aborted` property and `'abort'`, `'aborted'` event in `http`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.0.0, v16.12.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

Move to <Stream> API instead, as the `http.ClientRequest`,
`http.ServerResponse`, and `http.IncomingMessage` are all stream-based. Check
`stream.destroyed` instead of the `.aborted` property, and listen for
`'close'` instead of `'abort'`, `'aborted'` event.

The `.aborted` property and `'abort'` event are only useful for detecting
`.abort()` calls. For closing a request early, use the Stream
`.destroy([error])` then check the `.destroyed` property and `'close'` event
should have the same effect. The receiving end should also check the
`readable.readableEnded` value on `http.IncomingMessage` to get whether it was
an aborted or graceful destroy.

#### DEP0157: Thenable support in streams#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | End-of-life.  
v17.2.0, v16.14.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

An undocumented feature of Node.js streams was to support thenables in
implementation methods. This is now deprecated, use callbacks instead and
avoid use of async function for streams implementation methods.

This feature caused users to encounter unexpected problems where the user
implements the function in callback style but uses e.g. an async method which
would cause an error since mixing promise and callback semantics is not valid.

    
    
    const w = new Writable({
      async final(callback) {
        await someOp();
        callback();
      },
    }); copy

#### DEP0158: `buffer.slice(start, end)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.5.0, v16.15.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

This method was deprecated because it is not compatible with
`Uint8Array.prototype.slice()`, which is a superclass of `Buffer`.

Use `buffer.subarray` which does the same thing instead.

#### DEP0159: `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

This error code was removed due to adding more confusion to the errors used
for value type validation.

#### DEP0160: `process.on('multipleResolves', handler)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v17.6.0, v16.15.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime.

This event was deprecated because it did not work with V8 promise combinators
which diminished its usefulness.

#### DEP0161: `process._getActiveRequests()` and
`process._getActiveHandles()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.6.0, v16.15.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The `process._getActiveHandles()` and `process._getActiveRequests()` functions
are not intended for public use and can be removed in future releases.

Use `process.getActiveResourcesInfo()` to get a list of types of active
resources and not the actual references.

#### DEP0162: `fs.write()`, `fs.writeFileSync()` coercion to string#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v18.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v17.8.0, v16.15.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

Implicit coercion of objects with own `toString` property, passed as second
parameter in `fs.write()`, `fs.writeFile()`, `fs.appendFile()`,
`fs.writeFileSync()`, and `fs.appendFileSync()` is deprecated. Convert them to
primitive strings.

#### DEP0163: `channel.subscribe(onMessage)`,
`channel.unsubscribe(onMessage)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.7.0, v16.17.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

These methods were deprecated because they can be used in a way which does not
hold the channel reference alive long enough to receive the events.

Use `diagnostics_channel.subscribe(name, onMessage)` or
`diagnostics_channel.unsubscribe(name, onMessage)` which does the same thing
instead.

#### DEP0164: `process.exit(code)`, `process.exitCode` coercion to integer#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v19.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v18.10.0, v16.18.0 | Documentation-only deprecation of `process.exitCode` integer coercion.  
v18.7.0, v16.17.0 | Documentation-only deprecation of `process.exit(code)` integer coercion.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

Values other than `undefined`, `null`, integer numbers, and integer strings
(e.g., `'1'`) are deprecated as value for the `code` parameter in
`process.exit()` and as value to assign to `process.exitCode`.

#### DEP0165: `--trace-atomics-wait`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | End-of-Life.  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v18.8.0, v16.18.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `--trace-atomics-wait` flag has been removed because it uses the V8 hook
`SetAtomicsWaitCallback`, that will be removed in a future V8 release.

#### DEP0166: Double slashes in imports and exports targets#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v18.10.0 | Documentation-only deprecation with `--pending-deprecation` support.  
  
Type: Runtime

Package imports and exports targets mapping into paths including a double
slash (of _"/"_ or _"\"_) are deprecated and will fail with a resolution
validation error in a future release. This same deprecation also applies to
pattern matches starting or ending in a slash.

#### DEP0167: Weak `DiffieHellmanGroup` instances (`modp1`, `modp2`, `modp5`)#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.10.0, v16.18.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The well-known MODP groups `modp1`, `modp2`, and `modp5` are deprecated
because they are not secure against practical attacks. See [RFC 8247 Section
2.4](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8247#section-2.4) for details.

These groups might be removed in future versions of Node.js. Applications that
rely on these groups should evaluate using stronger MODP groups instead.

#### DEP0168: Unhandled exception in Node-API callbacks#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.3.0, v16.17.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

The implicit suppression of uncaught exceptions in Node-API callbacks is now
deprecated.

Set the flag `--force-node-api-uncaught-exceptions-policy` to force Node.js to
emit an `'uncaughtException'` event if the exception is not handled in Node-
API callbacks.

#### DEP0169: Insecure url.parse()#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.9.0, v18.17.0 | Added support for `--pending-deprecation`.  
v19.0.0, v18.13.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only (supports `--pending-deprecation`)

`url.parse()` behavior is not standardized and prone to errors that have
security implications. Use the WHATWG URL API instead. CVEs are not issued for
`url.parse()` vulnerabilities.

#### DEP0170: Invalid port when using `url.parse()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v19.2.0, v18.13.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

`url.parse()` accepts URLs with ports that are not numbers. This behavior
might result in host name spoofing with unexpected input. These URLs will
throw an error in future versions of Node.js, as the WHATWG URL API does
already.

#### DEP0171: Setters for `http.IncomingMessage` headers and trailers#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.3.0, v18.13.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

In a future version of Node.js, `message.headers`, `message.headersDistinct`,
`message.trailers`, and `message.trailersDistinct` will be read-only.

#### DEP0172: The `asyncResource` property of `AsyncResource` bound functions#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | Runtime-deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

In a future version of Node.js, the `asyncResource` property will no longer be
added when a function is bound to an `AsyncResource`.

#### DEP0173: the `assert.CallTracker` class#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.1.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

In a future version of Node.js, `assert.CallTracker`, will be removed.
Consider using alternatives such as the `mock` helper function.

#### DEP0174: calling `promisify` on a function that returns a `Promise`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v20.8.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

Calling `util.promisify` on a function that returns a `Promise` will ignore
the result of said promise, which can lead to unhandled promise rejections.

#### DEP0175: `util.toUSVString`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.8.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

The `util.toUSVString()` API is deprecated. Please use
[`String.prototype.toWellFormed`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/toWellFormed) instead.

#### DEP0176: `fs.F_OK`, `fs.R_OK`, `fs.W_OK`, `fs.X_OK`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.8.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

`F_OK`, `R_OK`, `W_OK` and `X_OK` getters exposed directly on `node:fs` are
deprecated. Get them from `fs.constants` or `fs.promises.constants` instead.

#### DEP0177: `util.types.isWebAssemblyCompiledModule`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.7.0, v20.12.0 | End-of-Life.  
v21.3.0, v20.11.0 | A deprecation code has been assigned.  
v14.0.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: End-of-Life

The `util.types.isWebAssemblyCompiledModule` API has been removed. Please use
`value instanceof WebAssembly.Module` instead.

#### DEP0178: `dirent.path`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v21.5.0, v20.12.0, v18.20.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

The `dirent.path` is deprecated due to its lack of consistency across release
lines. Please use `dirent.parentPath` instead.

#### DEP0179: `Hash` constructor#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v21.5.0, v20.12.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

Calling `Hash` class directly with `Hash()` or `new Hash()` is deprecated due
to being internals, not intended for public use. Please use the
`crypto.createHash()` method to create Hash instances.

#### DEP0180: `fs.Stats` constructor#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v20.13.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

Calling `fs.Stats` class directly with `Stats()` or `new Stats()` is
deprecated due to being internals, not intended for public use.

#### DEP0181: `Hmac` constructor#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v20.13.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

Calling `Hmac` class directly with `Hmac()` or `new Hmac()` is deprecated due
to being internals, not intended for public use. Please use the
`crypto.createHmac()` method to create Hmac instances.

#### DEP0182: Short GCM authentication tags without explicit `authTagLength`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | Runtime deprecation.  
v20.13.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Runtime

Applications that intend to use authentication tags that are shorter than the
default authentication tag length must set the `authTagLength` option of the
`crypto.createDecipheriv()` function to the appropriate length.

For ciphers in GCM mode, the `decipher.setAuthTag()` function accepts
authentication tags of any valid length (see DEP0090). This behavior is
deprecated to better align with recommendations per [NIST SP
800-38D](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-38d.pdf).

#### DEP0183: OpenSSL engine-based APIs#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.4.0, v20.16.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

OpenSSL 3 has deprecated support for custom engines with a recommendation to
switch to its new provider model. The `clientCertEngine` option for
`https.request()`, `tls.createSecureContext()`, and `tls.createServer()`; the
`privateKeyEngine` and `privateKeyIdentifier` for `tls.createSecureContext()`;
and `crypto.setEngine()` all depend on this functionality from OpenSSL.

#### DEP0184: Instantiating `node:zlib` classes without `new`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.9.0, v20.18.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

Instantiating classes without the `new` qualifier exported by the `node:zlib`
module is deprecated. It is recommended to use the `new` qualifier instead.
This applies to all Zlib classes, such as `Deflate`, `DeflateRaw`, `Gunzip`,
`Inflate`, `InflateRaw`, `Unzip`, and `Zlib`.

#### DEP0185: Instantiating `node:repl` classes without `new`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.9.0, v20.18.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

Instantiating classes without the `new` qualifier exported by the `node:repl`
module is deprecated. It is recommended to use the `new` qualifier instead.
This applies to all REPL classes, including `REPLServer` and `Recoverable`.

#### DEP0187: Passing invalid argument types to `fs.existsSync`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.4.0 | Documentation-only.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

Passing non-supported argument types is deprecated and, instead of returning
`false`, will throw an error in a future version.

#### DEP0188: `process.features.ipv6` and `process.features.uv`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.4.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

These properties are unconditionally `true`. Any checks based on these
properties are redundant.

#### DEP0189: `process.features.tls_*`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.4.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
Type: Documentation-only

`process.features.tls_alpn`, `process.features.tls_ocsp`, and
`process.features.tls_sni` are deprecated, as their values are guaranteed to
be identical to that of `process.features.tls`.

## Diagnostics Channel#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.2.0, v18.13.0 | diagnostics_channel is now Stable.  
v15.1.0, v14.17.0 | Added in: v15.1.0, v14.17.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/diagnostics_channel.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/diagnostics_channel.js)

The `node:diagnostics_channel` module provides an API to create named channels
to report arbitrary message data for diagnostics purposes.

It can be accessed using:

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');copy

It is intended that a module writer wanting to report diagnostics messages
will create one or many top-level channels to report messages through.
Channels may also be acquired at runtime but it is not encouraged due to the
additional overhead of doing so. Channels may be exported for convenience, but
as long as the name is known it can be acquired anywhere.

If you intend for your module to produce diagnostics data for others to
consume it is recommended that you include documentation of what named
channels are used along with the shape of the message data. Channel names
should generally include the module name to avoid collisions with data from
other modules.

### Public API#

#### Overview#

Following is a simple overview of the public API.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    
    // Get a reusable channel object
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');
    
    function onMessage(message, name) {
      // Received data
    }
    
    // Subscribe to the channel
    diagnostics_channel.subscribe('my-channel', onMessage);
    
    // Check if the channel has an active subscriber
    if (channel.hasSubscribers) {
      // Publish data to the channel
      channel.publish({
        some: 'data',
      });
    }
    
    // Unsubscribe from the channel
    diagnostics_channel.unsubscribe('my-channel', onMessage);const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    
    // Get a reusable channel object
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');
    
    function onMessage(message, name) {
      // Received data
    }
    
    // Subscribe to the channel
    diagnostics_channel.subscribe('my-channel', onMessage);
    
    // Check if the channel has an active subscriber
    if (channel.hasSubscribers) {
      // Publish data to the channel
      channel.publish({
        some: 'data',
      });
    }
    
    // Unsubscribe from the channel
    diagnostics_channel.unsubscribe('my-channel', onMessage);copy

##### `diagnostics_channel.hasSubscribers(name)`#

Added in: v15.1.0, v14.17.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) The channel name
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If there are active subscribers

Check if there are active subscribers to the named channel. This is helpful if
the message you want to send might be expensive to prepare.

This API is optional but helpful when trying to publish messages from very
performance-sensitive code.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    
    if (diagnostics_channel.hasSubscribers('my-channel')) {
      // There are subscribers, prepare and publish message
    }const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    
    if (diagnostics_channel.hasSubscribers('my-channel')) {
      // There are subscribers, prepare and publish message
    }copy

##### `diagnostics_channel.channel(name)`#

Added in: v15.1.0, v14.17.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) The channel name
  * Returns: <Channel> The named channel object

This is the primary entry-point for anyone wanting to publish to a named
channel. It produces a channel object which is optimized to reduce overhead at
publish time as much as possible.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');copy

##### `diagnostics_channel.subscribe(name, onMessage)`#

Added in: v18.7.0, v16.17.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) The channel name
  * `onMessage` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The handler to receive channel messages 
    * `message` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The message data
    * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) The name of the channel

Register a message handler to subscribe to this channel. This message handler
will be run synchronously whenever a message is published to the channel. Any
errors thrown in the message handler will trigger an `'uncaughtException'`.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    
    diagnostics_channel.subscribe('my-channel', (message, name) => {
      // Received data
    });const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    
    diagnostics_channel.subscribe('my-channel', (message, name) => {
      // Received data
    });copy

##### `diagnostics_channel.unsubscribe(name, onMessage)`#

Added in: v18.7.0, v16.17.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) The channel name
  * `onMessage` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The previous subscribed handler to remove
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the handler was found, `false` otherwise.

Remove a message handler previously registered to this channel with
`diagnostics_channel.subscribe(name, onMessage)`.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    
    function onMessage(message, name) {
      // Received data
    }
    
    diagnostics_channel.subscribe('my-channel', onMessage);
    
    diagnostics_channel.unsubscribe('my-channel', onMessage);const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    
    function onMessage(message, name) {
      // Received data
    }
    
    diagnostics_channel.subscribe('my-channel', onMessage);
    
    diagnostics_channel.unsubscribe('my-channel', onMessage);copy

##### `diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel(nameOrChannels)`#

Added in: v19.9.0, v18.19.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `nameOrChannels` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <TracingChannel> Channel name or object containing all the TracingChannel Channels
  * Returns: <TracingChannel> Collection of channels to trace with

Creates a `TracingChannel` wrapper for the given TracingChannel Channels. If a
name is given, the corresponding tracing channels will be created in the form
of `tracing:${name}:${eventType}` where `eventType` corresponds to the types
of TracingChannel Channels.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    
    const channelsByName = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel('my-channel');
    
    // or...
    
    const channelsByCollection = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel({
      start: diagnostics_channel.channel('tracing:my-channel:start'),
      end: diagnostics_channel.channel('tracing:my-channel:end'),
      asyncStart: diagnostics_channel.channel('tracing:my-channel:asyncStart'),
      asyncEnd: diagnostics_channel.channel('tracing:my-channel:asyncEnd'),
      error: diagnostics_channel.channel('tracing:my-channel:error'),
    });const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    
    const channelsByName = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel('my-channel');
    
    // or...
    
    const channelsByCollection = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel({
      start: diagnostics_channel.channel('tracing:my-channel:start'),
      end: diagnostics_channel.channel('tracing:my-channel:end'),
      asyncStart: diagnostics_channel.channel('tracing:my-channel:asyncStart'),
      asyncEnd: diagnostics_channel.channel('tracing:my-channel:asyncEnd'),
      error: diagnostics_channel.channel('tracing:my-channel:error'),
    });copy

#### Class: `Channel`#

Added in: v15.1.0, v14.17.0

The class `Channel` represents an individual named channel within the data
pipeline. It is used to track subscribers and to publish messages when there
are subscribers present. It exists as a separate object to avoid channel
lookups at publish time, enabling very fast publish speeds and allowing for
heavy use while incurring very minimal cost. Channels are created with
`diagnostics_channel.channel(name)`, constructing a channel directly with `new
Channel(name)` is not supported.

##### `channel.hasSubscribers`#

Added in: v15.1.0, v14.17.0

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If there are active subscribers

Check if there are active subscribers to this channel. This is helpful if the
message you want to send might be expensive to prepare.

This API is optional but helpful when trying to publish messages from very
performance-sensitive code.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');
    
    if (channel.hasSubscribers) {
      // There are subscribers, prepare and publish message
    }const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');
    
    if (channel.hasSubscribers) {
      // There are subscribers, prepare and publish message
    }copy

##### `channel.publish(message)`#

Added in: v15.1.0, v14.17.0

  * `message` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The message to send to the channel subscribers

Publish a message to any subscribers to the channel. This will trigger message
handlers synchronously so they will execute within the same context.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');
    
    channel.publish({
      some: 'message',
    });const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');
    
    channel.publish({
      some: 'message',
    });copy

##### `channel.subscribe(onMessage)`#

Added in: v15.1.0, v14.17.0Deprecated since: v18.7.0, v16.17.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `diagnostics_channel.subscribe(name,
onMessage)`

  * `onMessage` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The handler to receive channel messages 
    * `message` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The message data
    * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) The name of the channel

Register a message handler to subscribe to this channel. This message handler
will be run synchronously whenever a message is published to the channel. Any
errors thrown in the message handler will trigger an `'uncaughtException'`.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');
    
    channel.subscribe((message, name) => {
      // Received data
    });const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');
    
    channel.subscribe((message, name) => {
      // Received data
    });copy

##### `channel.unsubscribe(onMessage)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.7.0, v16.17.0 | Deprecated since: v18.7.0, v16.17.0  
v17.1.0, v16.14.0, v14.19.0 | Added return value. Added to channels without subscribers.  
v15.1.0, v14.17.0 | Added in: v15.1.0, v14.17.0  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `diagnostics_channel.unsubscribe(name,
onMessage)`

  * `onMessage` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The previous subscribed handler to remove
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the handler was found, `false` otherwise.

Remove a message handler previously registered to this channel with
`channel.subscribe(onMessage)`.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');
    
    function onMessage(message, name) {
      // Received data
    }
    
    channel.subscribe(onMessage);
    
    channel.unsubscribe(onMessage);const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');
    
    function onMessage(message, name) {
      // Received data
    }
    
    channel.subscribe(onMessage);
    
    channel.unsubscribe(onMessage);copy

##### `channel.bindStore(store[, transform])`#

Added in: v19.9.0, v18.19.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `store` <AsyncLocalStorage> The store to which to bind the context data
  * `transform` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Transform context data before setting the store context

When `channel.runStores(context, ...)` is called, the given context data will
be applied to any store bound to the channel. If the store has already been
bound the previous `transform` function will be replaced with the new one. The
`transform` function may be omitted to set the given context data as the
context directly.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    import { AsyncLocalStorage } from 'node:async_hooks';
    
    const store = new AsyncLocalStorage();
    
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');
    
    channel.bindStore(store, (data) => {
      return { data };
    });const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    const { AsyncLocalStorage } = require('node:async_hooks');
    
    const store = new AsyncLocalStorage();
    
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');
    
    channel.bindStore(store, (data) => {
      return { data };
    });copy

##### `channel.unbindStore(store)`#

Added in: v19.9.0, v18.19.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `store` <AsyncLocalStorage> The store to unbind from the channel.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the store was found, `false` otherwise.

Remove a message handler previously registered to this channel with
`channel.bindStore(store)`.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    import { AsyncLocalStorage } from 'node:async_hooks';
    
    const store = new AsyncLocalStorage();
    
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');
    
    channel.bindStore(store);
    channel.unbindStore(store);const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    const { AsyncLocalStorage } = require('node:async_hooks');
    
    const store = new AsyncLocalStorage();
    
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');
    
    channel.bindStore(store);
    channel.unbindStore(store);copy

##### `channel.runStores(context, fn[, thisArg[, ...args]])`#

Added in: v19.9.0, v18.19.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `context` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Message to send to subscribers and bind to stores
  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Handler to run within the entered storage context
  * `thisArg` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The receiver to be used for the function call.
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Optional arguments to pass to the function.

Applies the given data to any AsyncLocalStorage instances bound to the channel
for the duration of the given function, then publishes to the channel within
the scope of that data is applied to the stores.

If a transform function was given to `channel.bindStore(store)` it will be
applied to transform the message data before it becomes the context value for
the store. The prior storage context is accessible from within the transform
function in cases where context linking is required.

The context applied to the store should be accessible in any async code which
continues from execution which began during the given function, however there
are some situations in which context loss may occur.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    import { AsyncLocalStorage } from 'node:async_hooks';
    
    const store = new AsyncLocalStorage();
    
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');
    
    channel.bindStore(store, (message) => {
      const parent = store.getStore();
      return new Span(message, parent);
    });
    channel.runStores({ some: 'message' }, () => {
      store.getStore(); // Span({ some: 'message' })
    });const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    const { AsyncLocalStorage } = require('node:async_hooks');
    
    const store = new AsyncLocalStorage();
    
    const channel = diagnostics_channel.channel('my-channel');
    
    channel.bindStore(store, (message) => {
      const parent = store.getStore();
      return new Span(message, parent);
    });
    channel.runStores({ some: 'message' }, () => {
      store.getStore(); // Span({ some: 'message' })
    });copy

#### Class: `TracingChannel`#

Added in: v19.9.0, v18.19.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

The class `TracingChannel` is a collection of TracingChannel Channels which
together express a single traceable action. It is used to formalize and
simplify the process of producing events for tracing application flow.
`diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel()` is used to construct a
`TracingChannel`. As with `Channel` it is recommended to create and reuse a
single `TracingChannel` at the top-level of the file rather than creating them
dynamically.

##### `tracingChannel.subscribe(subscribers)`#

Added in: v19.9.0, v18.19.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `subscribers` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Set of TracingChannel Channels subscribers 
    * `start` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `start` event subscriber
    * `end` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `end` event subscriber
    * `asyncStart` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `asyncStart` event subscriber
    * `asyncEnd` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `asyncEnd` event subscriber
    * `error` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `error` event subscriber

Helper to subscribe a collection of functions to the corresponding channels.
This is the same as calling `channel.subscribe(onMessage)` on each channel
individually.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    
    const channels = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel('my-channel');
    
    channels.subscribe({
      start(message) {
        // Handle start message
      },
      end(message) {
        // Handle end message
      },
      asyncStart(message) {
        // Handle asyncStart message
      },
      asyncEnd(message) {
        // Handle asyncEnd message
      },
      error(message) {
        // Handle error message
      },
    });const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    
    const channels = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel('my-channel');
    
    channels.subscribe({
      start(message) {
        // Handle start message
      },
      end(message) {
        // Handle end message
      },
      asyncStart(message) {
        // Handle asyncStart message
      },
      asyncEnd(message) {
        // Handle asyncEnd message
      },
      error(message) {
        // Handle error message
      },
    });copy

##### `tracingChannel.unsubscribe(subscribers)`#

Added in: v19.9.0, v18.19.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `subscribers` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Set of TracingChannel Channels subscribers 
    * `start` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `start` event subscriber
    * `end` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `end` event subscriber
    * `asyncStart` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `asyncStart` event subscriber
    * `asyncEnd` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `asyncEnd` event subscriber
    * `error` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `error` event subscriber
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if all handlers were successfully unsubscribed, and `false` otherwise.

Helper to unsubscribe a collection of functions from the corresponding
channels. This is the same as calling `channel.unsubscribe(onMessage)` on each
channel individually.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    
    const channels = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel('my-channel');
    
    channels.unsubscribe({
      start(message) {
        // Handle start message
      },
      end(message) {
        // Handle end message
      },
      asyncStart(message) {
        // Handle asyncStart message
      },
      asyncEnd(message) {
        // Handle asyncEnd message
      },
      error(message) {
        // Handle error message
      },
    });const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    
    const channels = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel('my-channel');
    
    channels.unsubscribe({
      start(message) {
        // Handle start message
      },
      end(message) {
        // Handle end message
      },
      asyncStart(message) {
        // Handle asyncStart message
      },
      asyncEnd(message) {
        // Handle asyncEnd message
      },
      error(message) {
        // Handle error message
      },
    });copy

##### `tracingChannel.traceSync(fn[, context[, thisArg[, ...args]]])`#

Added in: v19.9.0, v18.19.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Function to wrap a trace around
  * `context` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Shared object to correlate events through
  * `thisArg` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The receiver to be used for the function call
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Optional arguments to pass to the function
  * Returns: [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The return value of the given function

Trace a synchronous function call. This will always produce a `start` event
and `end` event around the execution and may produce an `error` event if the
given function throws an error. This will run the given function using
`channel.runStores(context, ...)` on the `start` channel which ensures all
events should have any bound stores set to match this trace context.

To ensure only correct trace graphs are formed, events will only be published
if subscribers are present prior to starting the trace. Subscriptions which
are added after the trace begins will not receive future events from that
trace, only future traces will be seen.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    
    const channels = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel('my-channel');
    
    channels.traceSync(() => {
      // Do something
    }, {
      some: 'thing',
    });const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    
    const channels = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel('my-channel');
    
    channels.traceSync(() => {
      // Do something
    }, {
      some: 'thing',
    });copy

##### `tracingChannel.tracePromise(fn[, context[, thisArg[, ...args]]])`#

Added in: v19.9.0, v18.19.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Promise-returning function to wrap a trace around
  * `context` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Shared object to correlate trace events through
  * `thisArg` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The receiver to be used for the function call
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Optional arguments to pass to the function
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Chained from promise returned by the given function

Trace a promise-returning function call. This will always produce a `start`
event and `end` event around the synchronous portion of the function
execution, and will produce an `asyncStart` event and `asyncEnd` event when a
promise continuation is reached. It may also produce an `error` event if the
given function throws an error or the returned promise rejects. This will run
the given function using `channel.runStores(context, ...)` on the `start`
channel which ensures all events should have any bound stores set to match
this trace context.

To ensure only correct trace graphs are formed, events will only be published
if subscribers are present prior to starting the trace. Subscriptions which
are added after the trace begins will not receive future events from that
trace, only future traces will be seen.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    
    const channels = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel('my-channel');
    
    channels.tracePromise(async () => {
      // Do something
    }, {
      some: 'thing',
    });const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    
    const channels = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel('my-channel');
    
    channels.tracePromise(async () => {
      // Do something
    }, {
      some: 'thing',
    });copy

##### `tracingChannel.traceCallback(fn[, position[, context[, thisArg[,
...args]]]])`#

Added in: v19.9.0, v18.19.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) callback using function to wrap a trace around
  * `position` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Zero-indexed argument position of expected callback (defaults to last argument if `undefined` is passed)
  * `context` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Shared object to correlate trace events through (defaults to `{}` if `undefined` is passed)
  * `thisArg` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The receiver to be used for the function call
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) arguments to pass to the function (must include the callback)
  * Returns: [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The return value of the given function

Trace a callback-receiving function call. The callback is expected to follow
the error as first arg convention typically used. This will always produce a
`start` event and `end` event around the synchronous portion of the function
execution, and will produce a `asyncStart` event and `asyncEnd` event around
the callback execution. It may also produce an `error` event if the given
function throws or the first argument passed to the callback is set. This will
run the given function using `channel.runStores(context, ...)` on the `start`
channel which ensures all events should have any bound stores set to match
this trace context.

To ensure only correct trace graphs are formed, events will only be published
if subscribers are present prior to starting the trace. Subscriptions which
are added after the trace begins will not receive future events from that
trace, only future traces will be seen.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    
    const channels = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel('my-channel');
    
    channels.traceCallback((arg1, callback) => {
      // Do something
      callback(null, 'result');
    }, 1, {
      some: 'thing',
    }, thisArg, arg1, callback);const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    
    const channels = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel('my-channel');
    
    channels.traceCallback((arg1, callback) => {
      // Do something
      callback(null, 'result');
    }, 1, {
      some: 'thing',
    }, thisArg, arg1, callback);copy

The callback will also be run with `channel.runStores(context, ...)` which
enables context loss recovery in some cases.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    import { AsyncLocalStorage } from 'node:async_hooks';
    
    const channels = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel('my-channel');
    const myStore = new AsyncLocalStorage();
    
    // The start channel sets the initial store data to something
    // and stores that store data value on the trace context object
    channels.start.bindStore(myStore, (data) => {
      const span = new Span(data);
      data.span = span;
      return span;
    });
    
    // Then asyncStart can restore from that data it stored previously
    channels.asyncStart.bindStore(myStore, (data) => {
      return data.span;
    });const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    const { AsyncLocalStorage } = require('node:async_hooks');
    
    const channels = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel('my-channel');
    const myStore = new AsyncLocalStorage();
    
    // The start channel sets the initial store data to something
    // and stores that store data value on the trace context object
    channels.start.bindStore(myStore, (data) => {
      const span = new Span(data);
      data.span = span;
      return span;
    });
    
    // Then asyncStart can restore from that data it stored previously
    channels.asyncStart.bindStore(myStore, (data) => {
      return data.span;
    });copy

##### `tracingChannel.hasSubscribers`#

Added in: v22.0.0, v20.13.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if any of the individual channels has a subscriber, `false` if not.

This is a helper method available on a `TracingChannel` instance to check if
any of the TracingChannel Channels have subscribers. A `true` is returned if
any of them have at least one subscriber, a `false` is returned otherwise.

    
    
    import diagnostics_channel from 'node:diagnostics_channel';
    
    const channels = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel('my-channel');
    
    if (channels.hasSubscribers) {
      // Do something
    }const diagnostics_channel = require('node:diagnostics_channel');
    
    const channels = diagnostics_channel.tracingChannel('my-channel');
    
    if (channels.hasSubscribers) {
      // Do something
    }copy

#### TracingChannel Channels#

A TracingChannel is a collection of several diagnostics_channels representing
specific points in the execution lifecycle of a single traceable action. The
behavior is split into five diagnostics_channels consisting of `start`, `end`,
`asyncStart`, `asyncEnd`, and `error`. A single traceable action will share
the same event object between all events, this can be helpful for managing
correlation through a weakmap.

These event objects will be extended with `result` or `error` values when the
task "completes". In the case of a synchronous task the `result` will be the
return value and the `error` will be anything thrown from the function. With
callback-based async functions the `result` will be the second argument of the
callback while the `error` will either be a thrown error visible in the `end`
event or the first callback argument in either of the `asyncStart` or
`asyncEnd` events.

To ensure only correct trace graphs are formed, events should only be
published if subscribers are present prior to starting the trace.
Subscriptions which are added after the trace begins should not receive future
events from that trace, only future traces will be seen.

Tracing channels should follow a naming pattern of:

  * `tracing:module.class.method:start` or `tracing:module.function:start`
  * `tracing:module.class.method:end` or `tracing:module.function:end`
  * `tracing:module.class.method:asyncStart` or `tracing:module.function:asyncStart`
  * `tracing:module.class.method:asyncEnd` or `tracing:module.function:asyncEnd`
  * `tracing:module.class.method:error` or `tracing:module.function:error`

##### `start(event)`#

  * Name: `tracing:${name}:start`

The `start` event represents the point at which a function is called. At this
point the event data may contain function arguments or anything else available
at the very start of the execution of the function.

##### `end(event)`#

  * Name: `tracing:${name}:end`

The `end` event represents the point at which a function call returns a value.
In the case of an async function this is when the promise returned not when
the function itself makes a return statement internally. At this point, if the
traced function was synchronous the `result` field will be set to the return
value of the function. Alternatively, the `error` field may be present to
represent any thrown errors.

It is recommended to listen specifically to the `error` event to track errors
as it may be possible for a traceable action to produce multiple errors. For
example, an async task which fails may be started internally before the sync
part of the task then throws an error.

##### `asyncStart(event)`#

  * Name: `tracing:${name}:asyncStart`

The `asyncStart` event represents the callback or continuation of a traceable
function being reached. At this point things like callback arguments may be
available, or anything else expressing the "result" of the action.

For callbacks-based functions, the first argument of the callback will be
assigned to the `error` field, if not `undefined` or `null`, and the second
argument will be assigned to the `result` field.

For promises, the argument to the `resolve` path will be assigned to `result`
or the argument to the `reject` path will be assign to `error`.

It is recommended to listen specifically to the `error` event to track errors
as it may be possible for a traceable action to produce multiple errors. For
example, an async task which fails may be started internally before the sync
part of the task then throws an error.

##### `asyncEnd(event)`#

  * Name: `tracing:${name}:asyncEnd`

The `asyncEnd` event represents the callback of an asynchronous function
returning. It's not likely event data will change after the `asyncStart`
event, however it may be useful to see the point where the callback completes.

##### `error(event)`#

  * Name: `tracing:${name}:error`

The `error` event represents any error produced by the traceable function
either synchronously or asynchronously. If an error is thrown in the
synchronous portion of the traced function the error will be assigned to the
`error` field of the event and the `error` event will be triggered. If an
error is received asynchronously through a callback or promise rejection it
will also be assigned to the `error` field of the event and trigger the
`error` event.

It is possible for a single traceable function call to produce errors multiple
times so this should be considered when consuming this event. For example, if
another async task is triggered internally which fails and then the sync part
of the function then throws and error two `error` events will be emitted, one
for the sync error and one for the async error.

#### Built-in Channels#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

While the diagnostics_channel API is now considered stable, the built-in
channels currently available are not. Each channel must be declared stable
independently.

##### Console#

`console.log`

  * `args` [<any[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Emitted when `console.log()` is called. Receives and array of the arguments
passed to `console.log()`.

`console.info`

  * `args` [<any[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Emitted when `console.info()` is called. Receives and array of the arguments
passed to `console.info()`.

`console.debug`

  * `args` [<any[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Emitted when `console.debug()` is called. Receives and array of the arguments
passed to `console.debug()`.

`console.warn`

  * `args` [<any[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Emitted when `console.warn()` is called. Receives and array of the arguments
passed to `console.warn()`.

`console.error`

  * `args` [<any[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Emitted when `console.error()` is called. Receives and array of the arguments
passed to `console.error()`.

##### HTTP#

`http.client.request.created`

  * `request` <http.ClientRequest>

Emitted when client creates a request object. Unlike
`http.client.request.start`, this event is emitted before the request has been
sent.

`http.client.request.start`

  * `request` <http.ClientRequest>

Emitted when client starts a request.

`http.client.request.error`

  * `request` <http.ClientRequest>
  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Emitted when an error occurs during a client request.

`http.client.response.finish`

  * `request` <http.ClientRequest>
  * `response` <http.IncomingMessage>

Emitted when client receives a response.

`http.server.request.start`

  * `request` <http.IncomingMessage>
  * `response` <http.ServerResponse>
  * `socket` <net.Socket>
  * `server` <http.Server>

Emitted when server receives a request.

`http.server.response.created`

  * `request` <http.IncomingMessage>
  * `response` <http.ServerResponse>

Emitted when server creates a response. The event is emitted before the
response is sent.

`http.server.response.finish`

  * `request` <http.IncomingMessage>
  * `response` <http.ServerResponse>
  * `socket` <net.Socket>
  * `server` <http.Server>

Emitted when server sends a response.

##### Modules#

`module.require.start`

  * `event` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) containing the following properties 
    * `id` \- Argument passed to `require()`. Module name.
    * `parentFilename` \- Name of the module that attempted to require(id).

Emitted when `require()` is executed. See `start` event.

`module.require.end`

  * `event` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) containing the following properties 
    * `id` \- Argument passed to `require()`. Module name.
    * `parentFilename` \- Name of the module that attempted to require(id).

Emitted when a `require()` call returns. See `end` event.

`module.require.error`

  * `event` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) containing the following properties 
    * `id` \- Argument passed to `require()`. Module name.
    * `parentFilename` \- Name of the module that attempted to require(id).
  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Emitted when a `require()` throws an error. See `error` event.

`module.import.asyncStart`

  * `event` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) containing the following properties 
    * `id` \- Argument passed to `import()`. Module name.
    * `parentURL` \- URL object of the module that attempted to import(id).

Emitted when `import()` is invoked. See `asyncStart` event.

`module.import.asyncEnd`

  * `event` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) containing the following properties 
    * `id` \- Argument passed to `import()`. Module name.
    * `parentURL` \- URL object of the module that attempted to import(id).

Emitted when `import()` has completed. See `asyncEnd` event.

`module.import.error`

  * `event` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) containing the following properties 
    * `id` \- Argument passed to `import()`. Module name.
    * `parentURL` \- URL object of the module that attempted to import(id).
  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Emitted when a `import()` throws an error. See `error` event.

##### NET#

`net.client.socket`

  * `socket` <net.Socket>

Emitted when a new TCP or pipe client socket is created.

`net.server.socket`

  * `socket` <net.Socket>

Emitted when a new TCP or pipe connection is received.

`tracing:net.server.listen:asyncStart`

  * `server` <net.Server>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Emitted when `net.Server.listen()` is invoked, before the port or pipe is
actually setup.

`tracing:net.server.listen:asyncEnd`

  * `server` <net.Server>

Emitted when `net.Server.listen()` has completed and thus the server is ready
to accept connection.

`tracing:net.server.listen:error`

  * `server` <net.Server>
  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Emitted when `net.Server.listen()` is returning an error.

##### UDP#

`udp.socket`

  * `socket` <dgram.Socket>

Emitted when a new UDP socket is created.

##### Process#

Added in: v16.18.0

`child_process`

  * `process` <ChildProcess>

Emitted when a new process is created.

##### Worker Thread#

Added in: v16.18.0

`worker_threads`

  * `worker` `Worker`

Emitted when a new thread is created.

## DNS#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/dns.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/dns.js)

The `node:dns` module enables name resolution. For example, use it to look up
IP addresses of host names.

Although named for the [Domain Name System
(DNS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain_Name_System), it does not always
use the DNS protocol for lookups. `dns.lookup()` uses the operating system
facilities to perform name resolution. It may not need to perform any network
communication. To perform name resolution the way other applications on the
same system do, use `dns.lookup()`.

    
    
    import dns from 'node:dns';
    
    dns.lookup('example.org', (err, address, family) => {
      console.log('address: %j family: IPv%s', address, family);
    });
    // address: "2606:2800:21f:cb07:6820:80da:af6b:8b2c" family: IPv6const dns = require('node:dns');
    
    dns.lookup('example.org', (err, address, family) => {
      console.log('address: %j family: IPv%s', address, family);
    });
    // address: "2606:2800:21f:cb07:6820:80da:af6b:8b2c" family: IPv6copy

All other functions in the `node:dns` module connect to an actual DNS server
to perform name resolution. They will always use the network to perform DNS
queries. These functions do not use the same set of configuration files used
by `dns.lookup()` (e.g. `/etc/hosts`). Use these functions to always perform
DNS queries, bypassing other name-resolution facilities.

    
    
    import dns from 'node:dns';
    
    dns.resolve4('archive.org', (err, addresses) => {
      if (err) throw err;
    
      console.log(`addresses: ${JSON.stringify(addresses)}`);
    
      addresses.forEach((a) => {
        dns.reverse(a, (err, hostnames) => {
          if (err) {
            throw err;
          }
          console.log(`reverse for ${a}: ${JSON.stringify(hostnames)}`);
        });
      });
    });const dns = require('node:dns');
    
    dns.resolve4('archive.org', (err, addresses) => {
      if (err) throw err;
    
      console.log(`addresses: ${JSON.stringify(addresses)}`);
    
      addresses.forEach((a) => {
        dns.reverse(a, (err, hostnames) => {
          if (err) {
            throw err;
          }
          console.log(`reverse for ${a}: ${JSON.stringify(hostnames)}`);
        });
      });
    });copy

See the Implementation considerations section for more information.

### Class: `dns.Resolver`#

Added in: v8.3.0

An independent resolver for DNS requests.

Creating a new resolver uses the default server settings. Setting the servers
used for a resolver using `resolver.setServers()` does not affect other
resolvers:

    
    
    import { Resolver } from 'node:dns';
    const resolver = new Resolver();
    resolver.setServers(['4.4.4.4']);
    
    // This request will use the server at 4.4.4.4, independent of global settings.
    resolver.resolve4('example.org', (err, addresses) => {
      // ...
    });const { Resolver } = require('node:dns');
    const resolver = new Resolver();
    resolver.setServers(['4.4.4.4']);
    
    // This request will use the server at 4.4.4.4, independent of global settings.
    resolver.resolve4('example.org', (err, addresses) => {
      // ...
    });copy

The following methods from the `node:dns` module are available:

  * `resolver.getServers()`
  * `resolver.resolve()`
  * `resolver.resolve4()`
  * `resolver.resolve6()`
  * `resolver.resolveAny()`
  * `resolver.resolveCaa()`
  * `resolver.resolveCname()`
  * `resolver.resolveMx()`
  * `resolver.resolveNaptr()`
  * `resolver.resolveNs()`
  * `resolver.resolvePtr()`
  * `resolver.resolveSoa()`
  * `resolver.resolveSrv()`
  * `resolver.resolveTlsa()`
  * `resolver.resolveTxt()`
  * `resolver.reverse()`
  * `resolver.setServers()`

#### `Resolver([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.7.0, v14.18.0 | The `options` object now accepts a `tries` option.  
v12.18.3 | The constructor now accepts an `options` object. The single supported option is `timeout`.  
v8.3.0 | Added in: v8.3.0  
  
Create a new resolver.

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `timeout` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Query timeout in milliseconds, or `-1` to use the default timeout.
    * `tries` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of tries the resolver will try contacting each name server before giving up. **Default:** `4`

#### `resolver.cancel()`#

Added in: v8.3.0

Cancel all outstanding DNS queries made by this resolver. The corresponding
callbacks will be called with an error with code `ECANCELLED`.

#### `resolver.setLocalAddress([ipv4][, ipv6])`#

Added in: v15.1.0, v14.17.0

  * `ipv4` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A string representation of an IPv4 address. **Default:** `'0.0.0.0'`
  * `ipv6` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A string representation of an IPv6 address. **Default:** `'::0'`

The resolver instance will send its requests from the specified IP address.
This allows programs to specify outbound interfaces when used on multi-homed
systems.

If a v4 or v6 address is not specified, it is set to the default and the
operating system will choose a local address automatically.

The resolver will use the v4 local address when making requests to IPv4 DNS
servers, and the v6 local address when making requests to IPv6 DNS servers.
The `rrtype` of resolution requests has no impact on the local address used.

### `dns.getServers()`#

Added in: v0.11.3

  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns an array of IP address strings, formatted according to [RFC
5952](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5952#section-6), that are currently
configured for DNS resolution. A string will include a port section if a
custom port is used.

    
    
    [
      '8.8.8.8',
      '2001:4860:4860::8888',
      '8.8.8.8:1053',
      '[2001:4860:4860::8888]:1053',
    ] copy

### `dns.lookup(hostname[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.1.0, v20.13.0 | The `verbatim` option is now deprecated in favor of the new `order` option.  
v18.4.0 | For compatibility with `node:net`, when passing an option object the `family` option can be the string `'IPv4'` or the string `'IPv6'`.  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v17.0.0 | The `verbatim` options defaults to `true` now.  
v8.5.0 | The `verbatim` option is supported now.  
v1.2.0 | The `all` option is supported now.  
v0.1.90 | Added in: v0.1.90  
  
  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `family` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The record family. Must be `4`, `6`, or `0`. For backward compatibility reasons,`'IPv4'` and `'IPv6'` are interpreted as `4` and `6` respectively. The value `0` indicates that either an IPv4 or IPv6 address is returned. If the value `0` is used with `{ all: true }` (see below), either one of or both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are returned, depending on the system's DNS resolver. **Default:** `0`.
    * `hints` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) One or more supported `getaddrinfo` flags. Multiple flags may be passed by bitwise `OR`ing their values.
    * `all` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, the callback returns all resolved addresses in an array. Otherwise, returns a single address. **Default:** `false`.
    * `order` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) When `verbatim`, the resolved addresses are return unsorted. When `ipv4first`, the resolved addresses are sorted by placing IPv4 addresses before IPv6 addresses. When `ipv6first`, the resolved addresses are sorted by placing IPv6 addresses before IPv4 addresses. **Default:** `verbatim` (addresses are not reordered). Default value is configurable using `dns.setDefaultResultOrder()` or `--dns-result-order`.
    * `verbatim` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, the callback receives IPv4 and IPv6 addresses in the order the DNS resolver returned them. When `false`, IPv4 addresses are placed before IPv6 addresses. This option will be deprecated in favor of `order`. When both are specified, `order` has higher precedence. New code should only use `order`. **Default:** `true` (addresses are not reordered). Default value is configurable using `dns.setDefaultResultOrder()` or `--dns-result-order`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `address` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A string representation of an IPv4 or IPv6 address.
    * `family` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `4` or `6`, denoting the family of `address`, or `0` if the address is not an IPv4 or IPv6 address. `0` is a likely indicator of a bug in the name resolution service used by the operating system.

Resolves a host name (e.g. `'nodejs.org'`) into the first found A (IPv4) or
AAAA (IPv6) record. All `option` properties are optional. If `options` is an
integer, then it must be `4` or `6` – if `options` is not provided, then
either IPv4 or IPv6 addresses, or both, are returned if found.

With the `all` option set to `true`, the arguments for `callback` change to
`(err, addresses)`, with `addresses` being an array of objects with the
properties `address` and `family`.

On error, `err` is an `Error` object, where `err.code` is the error code. Keep
in mind that `err.code` will be set to `'ENOTFOUND'` not only when the host
name does not exist but also when the lookup fails in other ways such as no
available file descriptors.

`dns.lookup()` does not necessarily have anything to do with the DNS protocol.
The implementation uses an operating system facility that can associate names
with addresses and vice versa. This implementation can have subtle but
important consequences on the behavior of any Node.js program. Please take
some time to consult the Implementation considerations section before using
`dns.lookup()`.

Example usage:

    
    
    import dns from 'node:dns';
    const options = {
      family: 6,
      hints: dns.ADDRCONFIG | dns.V4MAPPED,
    };
    dns.lookup('example.org', options, (err, address, family) =>
      console.log('address: %j family: IPv%s', address, family));
    // address: "2606:2800:21f:cb07:6820:80da:af6b:8b2c" family: IPv6
    
    // When options.all is true, the result will be an Array.
    options.all = true;
    dns.lookup('example.org', options, (err, addresses) =>
      console.log('addresses: %j', addresses));
    // addresses: [{"address":"2606:2800:21f:cb07:6820:80da:af6b:8b2c","family":6}]const dns = require('node:dns');
    const options = {
      family: 6,
      hints: dns.ADDRCONFIG | dns.V4MAPPED,
    };
    dns.lookup('example.org', options, (err, address, family) =>
      console.log('address: %j family: IPv%s', address, family));
    // address: "2606:2800:21f:cb07:6820:80da:af6b:8b2c" family: IPv6
    
    // When options.all is true, the result will be an Array.
    options.all = true;
    dns.lookup('example.org', options, (err, addresses) =>
      console.log('addresses: %j', addresses));
    // addresses: [{"address":"2606:2800:21f:cb07:6820:80da:af6b:8b2c","family":6}]copy

If this method is invoked as its `util.promisify()`ed version, and `all` is
not set to `true`, it returns a `Promise` for an `Object` with `address` and
`family` properties.

#### Supported getaddrinfo flags#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.13.0, v12.17.0 | Added support for the `dns.ALL` flag.  
  
The following flags can be passed as hints to `dns.lookup()`.

  * `dns.ADDRCONFIG`: Limits returned address types to the types of non-loopback addresses configured on the system. For example, IPv4 addresses are only returned if the current system has at least one IPv4 address configured.
  * `dns.V4MAPPED`: If the IPv6 family was specified, but no IPv6 addresses were found, then return IPv4 mapped IPv6 addresses. It is not supported on some operating systems (e.g. FreeBSD 10.1).
  * `dns.ALL`: If `dns.V4MAPPED` is specified, return resolved IPv6 addresses as well as IPv4 mapped IPv6 addresses.

### `dns.lookupService(address, port, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v0.11.14 | Added in: v0.11.14  
  
  * `address` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) e.g. `example.com`
    * `service` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) e.g. `http`

Resolves the given `address` and `port` into a host name and service using the
operating system's underlying `getnameinfo` implementation.

If `address` is not a valid IP address, a `TypeError` will be thrown. The
`port` will be coerced to a number. If it is not a legal port, a `TypeError`
will be thrown.

On an error, `err` is an `Error` object, where `err.code` is the error code.

    
    
    import dns from 'node:dns';
    dns.lookupService('127.0.0.1', 22, (err, hostname, service) => {
      console.log(hostname, service);
      // Prints: localhost ssh
    });const dns = require('node:dns');
    dns.lookupService('127.0.0.1', 22, (err, hostname, service) => {
      console.log(hostname, service);
      // Prints: localhost ssh
    });copy

If this method is invoked as its `util.promisify()`ed version, it returns a
`Promise` for an `Object` with `hostname` and `service` properties.

### `dns.resolve(hostname[, rrtype], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v0.1.27 | Added in: v0.1.27  
  
  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Host name to resolve.
  * `rrtype` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Resource record type. **Default:** `'A'`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `records` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve a host name (e.g. `'nodejs.org'`) into an
array of the resource records. The `callback` function has arguments `(err,
records)`. When successful, `records` will be an array of resource records.
The type and structure of individual results varies based on `rrtype`:

`rrtype`| `records` contains| Result type| Shorthand method  
---|---|---|---  
`'A'`| IPv4 addresses (default)| [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)| `dns.resolve4()`  
`'AAAA'`| IPv6 addresses| [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)| `dns.resolve6()`  
`'ANY'`| any records| [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)| `dns.resolveAny()`  
`'CAA'`| CA authorization records|
[<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)| `dns.resolveCaa()`  
`'CNAME'`| canonical name records|
[<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)| `dns.resolveCname()`  
`'MX'`| mail exchange records| [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)| `dns.resolveMx()`  
`'NAPTR'`| name authority pointer records|
[<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)| `dns.resolveNaptr()`  
`'NS'`| name server records| [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)| `dns.resolveNs()`  
`'PTR'`| pointer records| [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)| `dns.resolvePtr()`  
`'SOA'`| start of authority records|
[<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)| `dns.resolveSoa()`  
`'SRV'`| service records| [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)| `dns.resolveSrv()`  
`'TLSA'`| certificate associations|
[<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)| `dns.resolveTlsa()`  
`'TXT'`| text records| [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)| `dns.resolveTxt()`  
  
On error, `err` is an `Error` object, where `err.code` is one of the DNS error
codes.

### `dns.resolve4(hostname[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v7.2.0 | This method now supports passing `options`, specifically `options.ttl`.  
v0.1.16 | Added in: v0.1.16  
  
  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Host name to resolve.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `ttl` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Retrieves the Time-To-Live value (TTL) of each record. When `true`, the callback receives an array of `{ address: '1.2.3.4', ttl: 60 }` objects rather than an array of strings, with the TTL expressed in seconds.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `addresses` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve a IPv4 addresses (`A` records) for the
`hostname`. The `addresses` argument passed to the `callback` function will
contain an array of IPv4 addresses (e.g. `['74.125.79.104', '74.125.79.105',
'74.125.79.106']`).

### `dns.resolve6(hostname[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v7.2.0 | This method now supports passing `options`, specifically `options.ttl`.  
v0.1.16 | Added in: v0.1.16  
  
  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Host name to resolve.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `ttl` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Retrieve the Time-To-Live value (TTL) of each record. When `true`, the callback receives an array of `{ address: '0:1:2:3:4:5:6:7', ttl: 60 }` objects rather than an array of strings, with the TTL expressed in seconds.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `addresses` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve IPv6 addresses (`AAAA` records) for the
`hostname`. The `addresses` argument passed to the `callback` function will
contain an array of IPv6 addresses.

### `dns.resolveAny(hostname, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
  
  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `ret` [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve all records (also known as `ANY` or `*`
query). The `ret` argument passed to the `callback` function will be an array
containing various types of records. Each object has a property `type` that
indicates the type of the current record. And depending on the `type`,
additional properties will be present on the object:

Type| Properties  
---|---  
`'A'`| `address`/`ttl`  
`'AAAA'`| `address`/`ttl`  
`'CNAME'`| `value`  
`'MX'`| Refer to `dns.resolveMx()`  
`'NAPTR'`| Refer to `dns.resolveNaptr()`  
`'NS'`| `value`  
`'PTR'`| `value`  
`'SOA'`| Refer to `dns.resolveSoa()`  
`'SRV'`| Refer to `dns.resolveSrv()`  
`'TLSA'`| Refer to `dns.resolveTlsa()`  
`'TXT'`| This type of record contains an array property called `entries` which
refers to `dns.resolveTxt()`, e.g. `{ entries: ['...'], type: 'TXT' }`  
  
Here is an example of the `ret` object passed to the callback:

    
    
    [ { type: 'A', address: '127.0.0.1', ttl: 299 },
      { type: 'CNAME', value: 'example.com' },
      { type: 'MX', exchange: 'alt4.aspmx.l.example.com', priority: 50 },
      { type: 'NS', value: 'ns1.example.com' },
      { type: 'TXT', entries: [ 'v=spf1 include:_spf.example.com ~all' ] },
      { type: 'SOA',
        nsname: 'ns1.example.com',
        hostmaster: 'admin.example.com',
        serial: 156696742,
        refresh: 900,
        retry: 900,
        expire: 1800,
        minttl: 60 } ] copy

DNS server operators may choose not to respond to `ANY` queries. It may be
better to call individual methods like `dns.resolve4()`, `dns.resolveMx()`,
and so on. For more details, see [RFC
8482](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8482).

### `dns.resolveCname(hostname, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v0.3.2 | Added in: v0.3.2  
  
  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `addresses` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve `CNAME` records for the `hostname`. The
`addresses` argument passed to the `callback` function will contain an array
of canonical name records available for the `hostname` (e.g.
`['bar.example.com']`).

### `dns.resolveCaa(hostname, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v15.0.0, v14.17.0 | Added in: v15.0.0, v14.17.0  
  
  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `records` [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve `CAA` records for the `hostname`. The
`addresses` argument passed to the `callback` function will contain an array
of certification authority authorization records available for the `hostname`
(e.g. `[{critical: 0, iodef: 'mailto:[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-
protection)'}, {critical: 128, issue: 'pki.example.com'}]`).

### `dns.resolveMx(hostname, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v0.1.27 | Added in: v0.1.27  
  
  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `addresses` [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve mail exchange records (`MX` records) for the
`hostname`. The `addresses` argument passed to the `callback` function will
contain an array of objects containing both a `priority` and `exchange`
property (e.g. `[{priority: 10, exchange: 'mx.example.com'}, ...]`).

### `dns.resolveNaptr(hostname, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v0.9.12 | Added in: v0.9.12  
  
  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `addresses` [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve regular expression-based records (`NAPTR`
records) for the `hostname`. The `addresses` argument passed to the `callback`
function will contain an array of objects with the following properties:

  * `flags`
  * `service`
  * `regexp`
  * `replacement`
  * `order`
  * `preference`

    
    
    {
      flags: 's',
      service: 'SIP+D2U',
      regexp: '',
      replacement: '_sip._udp.example.com',
      order: 30,
      preference: 100
    } copy

### `dns.resolveNs(hostname, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v0.1.90 | Added in: v0.1.90  
  
  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `addresses` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve name server records (`NS` records) for the
`hostname`. The `addresses` argument passed to the `callback` function will
contain an array of name server records available for `hostname` (e.g.
`['ns1.example.com', 'ns2.example.com']`).

### `dns.resolvePtr(hostname, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v6.0.0 | Added in: v6.0.0  
  
  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `addresses` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve pointer records (`PTR` records) for the
`hostname`. The `addresses` argument passed to the `callback` function will be
an array of strings containing the reply records.

### `dns.resolveSoa(hostname, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v0.11.10 | Added in: v0.11.10  
  
  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `address` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve a start of authority record (`SOA` record)
for the `hostname`. The `address` argument passed to the `callback` function
will be an object with the following properties:

  * `nsname`
  * `hostmaster`
  * `serial`
  * `refresh`
  * `retry`
  * `expire`
  * `minttl`

    
    
    {
      nsname: 'ns.example.com',
      hostmaster: 'root.example.com',
      serial: 2013101809,
      refresh: 10000,
      retry: 2400,
      expire: 604800,
      minttl: 3600
    } copy

### `dns.resolveSrv(hostname, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v0.1.27 | Added in: v0.1.27  
  
  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `addresses` [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve service records (`SRV` records) for the
`hostname`. The `addresses` argument passed to the `callback` function will be
an array of objects with the following properties:

  * `priority`
  * `weight`
  * `port`
  * `name`

    
    
    {
      priority: 10,
      weight: 5,
      port: 21223,
      name: 'service.example.com'
    } copy

### `dns.resolveTlsa(hostname, callback)`#

Added in: v23.9.0

  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `records` [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve certificate associations (`TLSA` records) for
the `hostname`. The `records` argument passed to the `callback` function is an
array of objects with these properties:

  * `certUsage`
  * `selector`
  * `match`
  * `data`

    
    
    {
      certUsage: 3,
      selector: 1,
      match: 1,
      data: [ArrayBuffer]
    } copy

### `dns.resolveTxt(hostname, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v0.1.27 | Added in: v0.1.27  
  
  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `records` [<string[][]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve text queries (`TXT` records) for the
`hostname`. The `records` argument passed to the `callback` function is a two-
dimensional array of the text records available for `hostname` (e.g. `[
['v=spf1 ip4:0.0.0.0 ', '~all' ] ]`). Each sub-array contains TXT chunks of
one record. Depending on the use case, these could be either joined together
or treated separately.

### `dns.reverse(ip, callback)`#

Added in: v0.1.16

  * `ip` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `hostnames` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Performs a reverse DNS query that resolves an IPv4 or IPv6 address to an array
of host names.

On error, `err` is an `Error` object, where `err.code` is one of the DNS error
codes.

### `dns.setDefaultResultOrder(order)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.1.0, v20.13.0 | The `ipv6first` value is supported now.  
v17.0.0 | Changed default value to `verbatim`.  
v16.4.0, v14.18.0 | Added in: v16.4.0, v14.18.0  
  
  * `order` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) must be `'ipv4first'`, `'ipv6first'` or `'verbatim'`.

Set the default value of `order` in `dns.lookup()` and `dnsPromises.lookup()`.
The value could be:

  * `ipv4first`: sets default `order` to `ipv4first`.
  * `ipv6first`: sets default `order` to `ipv6first`.
  * `verbatim`: sets default `order` to `verbatim`.

The default is `verbatim` and `dns.setDefaultResultOrder()` have higher
priority than `--dns-result-order`. When using [worker
threads](worker_threads.html), `dns.setDefaultResultOrder()` from the main
thread won't affect the default dns orders in workers.

### `dns.getDefaultResultOrder()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.1.0, v20.13.0 | The `ipv6first` value is supported now.  
v20.1.0, v18.17.0 | Added in: v20.1.0, v18.17.0  
  
Get the default value for `order` in `dns.lookup()` and
`dnsPromises.lookup()`. The value could be:

  * `ipv4first`: for `order` defaulting to `ipv4first`.
  * `ipv6first`: for `order` defaulting to `ipv6first`.
  * `verbatim`: for `order` defaulting to `verbatim`.

### `dns.setServers(servers)`#

Added in: v0.11.3

  * `servers` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) array of [RFC 5952](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5952#section-6) formatted addresses

Sets the IP address and port of servers to be used when performing DNS
resolution. The `servers` argument is an array of [RFC
5952](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5952#section-6) formatted addresses. If
the port is the IANA default DNS port (53) it can be omitted.

    
    
    dns.setServers([
      '8.8.8.8',
      '[2001:4860:4860::8888]',
      '8.8.8.8:1053',
      '[2001:4860:4860::8888]:1053',
    ]); copy

An error will be thrown if an invalid address is provided.

The `dns.setServers()` method must not be called while a DNS query is in
progress.

The `dns.setServers()` method affects only `dns.resolve()`, `dns.resolve*()`
and `dns.reverse()` (and specifically _not_ `dns.lookup()`).

This method works much like [resolve.conf](https://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man5/resolv.conf.5.html). That is, if attempting to resolve with the
first server provided results in a `NOTFOUND` error, the `resolve()` method
will _not_ attempt to resolve with subsequent servers provided. Fallback DNS
servers will only be used if the earlier ones time out or result in some other
error.

### DNS promises API#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | Exposed as `require('dns/promises')`.  
v11.14.0, v10.17.0 | This API is no longer experimental.  
v10.6.0 | Added in: v10.6.0  
  
The `dns.promises` API provides an alternative set of asynchronous DNS methods
that return `Promise` objects rather than using callbacks. The API is
accessible via `require('node:dns').promises` or
`require('node:dns/promises')`.

#### Class: `dnsPromises.Resolver`#

Added in: v10.6.0

An independent resolver for DNS requests.

Creating a new resolver uses the default server settings. Setting the servers
used for a resolver using `resolver.setServers()` does not affect other
resolvers:

    
    
    import { Resolver } from 'node:dns/promises';
    const resolver = new Resolver();
    resolver.setServers(['4.4.4.4']);
    
    // This request will use the server at 4.4.4.4, independent of global settings.
    const addresses = await resolver.resolve4('example.org');const { Resolver } = require('node:dns').promises;
    const resolver = new Resolver();
    resolver.setServers(['4.4.4.4']);
    
    // This request will use the server at 4.4.4.4, independent of global settings.
    resolver.resolve4('example.org').then((addresses) => {
      // ...
    });
    
    // Alternatively, the same code can be written using async-await style.
    (async function() {
      const addresses = await resolver.resolve4('example.org');
    })();copy

The following methods from the `dnsPromises` API are available:

  * `resolver.getServers()`
  * `resolver.resolve()`
  * `resolver.resolve4()`
  * `resolver.resolve6()`
  * `resolver.resolveAny()`
  * `resolver.resolveCaa()`
  * `resolver.resolveCname()`
  * `resolver.resolveMx()`
  * `resolver.resolveNaptr()`
  * `resolver.resolveNs()`
  * `resolver.resolvePtr()`
  * `resolver.resolveSoa()`
  * `resolver.resolveSrv()`
  * `resolver.resolveTlsa()`
  * `resolver.resolveTxt()`
  * `resolver.reverse()`
  * `resolver.setServers()`

#### `resolver.cancel()`#

Added in: v15.3.0, v14.17.0

Cancel all outstanding DNS queries made by this resolver. The corresponding
promises will be rejected with an error with the code `ECANCELLED`.

#### `dnsPromises.getServers()`#

Added in: v10.6.0

  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns an array of IP address strings, formatted according to [RFC
5952](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5952#section-6), that are currently
configured for DNS resolution. A string will include a port section if a
custom port is used.

    
    
    [
      '8.8.8.8',
      '2001:4860:4860::8888',
      '8.8.8.8:1053',
      '[2001:4860:4860::8888]:1053',
    ] copy

#### `dnsPromises.lookup(hostname[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.1.0, v20.13.0 | The `verbatim` option is now deprecated in favor of the new `order` option.  
v10.6.0 | Added in: v10.6.0  
  
  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `family` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The record family. Must be `4`, `6`, or `0`. The value `0` indicates that either an IPv4 or IPv6 address is returned. If the value `0` is used with `{ all: true }` (see below), either one of or both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are returned, depending on the system's DNS resolver. **Default:** `0`.
    * `hints` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) One or more supported `getaddrinfo` flags. Multiple flags may be passed by bitwise `OR`ing their values.
    * `all` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, the `Promise` is resolved with all addresses in an array. Otherwise, returns a single address. **Default:** `false`.
    * `order` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) When `verbatim`, the `Promise` is resolved with IPv4 and IPv6 addresses in the order the DNS resolver returned them. When `ipv4first`, IPv4 addresses are placed before IPv6 addresses. When `ipv6first`, IPv6 addresses are placed before IPv4 addresses. **Default:** `verbatim` (addresses are not reordered). Default value is configurable using `dns.setDefaultResultOrder()` or `--dns-result-order`. New code should use `{ order: 'verbatim' }`.
    * `verbatim` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, the `Promise` is resolved with IPv4 and IPv6 addresses in the order the DNS resolver returned them. When `false`, IPv4 addresses are placed before IPv6 addresses. This option will be deprecated in favor of `order`. When both are specified, `order` has higher precedence. New code should only use `order`. **Default:** currently `false` (addresses are reordered) but this is expected to change in the not too distant future. Default value is configurable using `dns.setDefaultResultOrder()` or `--dns-result-order`.

Resolves a host name (e.g. `'nodejs.org'`) into the first found A (IPv4) or
AAAA (IPv6) record. All `option` properties are optional. If `options` is an
integer, then it must be `4` or `6` – if `options` is not provided, then
either IPv4 or IPv6 addresses, or both, are returned if found.

With the `all` option set to `true`, the `Promise` is resolved with
`addresses` being an array of objects with the properties `address` and
`family`.

On error, the `Promise` is rejected with an `Error` object, where `err.code`
is the error code. Keep in mind that `err.code` will be set to `'ENOTFOUND'`
not only when the host name does not exist but also when the lookup fails in
other ways such as no available file descriptors.

`dnsPromises.lookup()` does not necessarily have anything to do with the DNS
protocol. The implementation uses an operating system facility that can
associate names with addresses and vice versa. This implementation can have
subtle but important consequences on the behavior of any Node.js program.
Please take some time to consult the Implementation considerations section
before using `dnsPromises.lookup()`.

Example usage:

    
    
    import dns from 'node:dns';
    const dnsPromises = dns.promises;
    const options = {
      family: 6,
      hints: dns.ADDRCONFIG | dns.V4MAPPED,
    };
    
    await dnsPromises.lookup('example.org', options).then((result) => {
      console.log('address: %j family: IPv%s', result.address, result.family);
      // address: "2606:2800:21f:cb07:6820:80da:af6b:8b2c" family: IPv6
    });
    
    // When options.all is true, the result will be an Array.
    options.all = true;
    await dnsPromises.lookup('example.org', options).then((result) => {
      console.log('addresses: %j', result);
      // addresses: [{"address":"2606:2800:21f:cb07:6820:80da:af6b:8b2c","family":6}]
    });const dns = require('node:dns');
    const dnsPromises = dns.promises;
    const options = {
      family: 6,
      hints: dns.ADDRCONFIG | dns.V4MAPPED,
    };
    
    dnsPromises.lookup('example.org', options).then((result) => {
      console.log('address: %j family: IPv%s', result.address, result.family);
      // address: "2606:2800:21f:cb07:6820:80da:af6b:8b2c" family: IPv6
    });
    
    // When options.all is true, the result will be an Array.
    options.all = true;
    dnsPromises.lookup('example.org', options).then((result) => {
      console.log('addresses: %j', result);
      // addresses: [{"address":"2606:2800:21f:cb07:6820:80da:af6b:8b2c","family":6}]
    });copy

#### `dnsPromises.lookupService(address, port)`#

Added in: v10.6.0

  * `address` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Resolves the given `address` and `port` into a host name and service using the
operating system's underlying `getnameinfo` implementation.

If `address` is not a valid IP address, a `TypeError` will be thrown. The
`port` will be coerced to a number. If it is not a legal port, a `TypeError`
will be thrown.

On error, the `Promise` is rejected with an `Error` object, where `err.code`
is the error code.

    
    
    import dnsPromises from 'node:dns/promises';
    const result = await dnsPromises.lookupService('127.0.0.1', 22);
    
    console.log(result.hostname, result.service); // Prints: localhost sshconst dnsPromises = require('node:dns').promises;
    dnsPromises.lookupService('127.0.0.1', 22).then((result) => {
      console.log(result.hostname, result.service);
      // Prints: localhost ssh
    });copy

#### `dnsPromises.resolve(hostname[, rrtype])`#

Added in: v10.6.0

  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Host name to resolve.
  * `rrtype` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Resource record type. **Default:** `'A'`.

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve a host name (e.g. `'nodejs.org'`) into an
array of the resource records. When successful, the `Promise` is resolved with
an array of resource records. The type and structure of individual results
vary based on `rrtype`:

`rrtype`| `records` contains| Result type| Shorthand method  
---|---|---|---  
`'A'`| IPv4 addresses (default)| [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)| `dnsPromises.resolve4()`  
`'AAAA'`| IPv6 addresses| [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)| `dnsPromises.resolve6()`  
`'ANY'`| any records| [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)|
`dnsPromises.resolveAny()`  
`'CAA'`| CA authorization records|
[<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)|
`dnsPromises.resolveCaa()`  
`'CNAME'`| canonical name records|
[<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)|
`dnsPromises.resolveCname()`  
`'MX'`| mail exchange records| [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)|
`dnsPromises.resolveMx()`  
`'NAPTR'`| name authority pointer records|
[<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)|
`dnsPromises.resolveNaptr()`  
`'NS'`| name server records| [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)| `dnsPromises.resolveNs()`  
`'PTR'`| pointer records| [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)|
`dnsPromises.resolvePtr()`  
`'SOA'`| start of authority records|
[<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)|
`dnsPromises.resolveSoa()`  
`'SRV'`| service records| [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)|
`dnsPromises.resolveSrv()`  
`'TLSA'`| certificate associations|
[<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)|
`dnsPromises.resolveTlsa()`  
`'TXT'`| text records| [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)|
`dnsPromises.resolveTxt()`  
  
On error, the `Promise` is rejected with an `Error` object, where `err.code`
is one of the DNS error codes.

#### `dnsPromises.resolve4(hostname[, options])`#

Added in: v10.6.0

  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Host name to resolve.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `ttl` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Retrieve the Time-To-Live value (TTL) of each record. When `true`, the `Promise` is resolved with an array of `{ address: '1.2.3.4', ttl: 60 }` objects rather than an array of strings, with the TTL expressed in seconds.

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve IPv4 addresses (`A` records) for the
`hostname`. On success, the `Promise` is resolved with an array of IPv4
addresses (e.g. `['74.125.79.104', '74.125.79.105', '74.125.79.106']`).

#### `dnsPromises.resolve6(hostname[, options])`#

Added in: v10.6.0

  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Host name to resolve.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `ttl` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Retrieve the Time-To-Live value (TTL) of each record. When `true`, the `Promise` is resolved with an array of `{ address: '0:1:2:3:4:5:6:7', ttl: 60 }` objects rather than an array of strings, with the TTL expressed in seconds.

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve IPv6 addresses (`AAAA` records) for the
`hostname`. On success, the `Promise` is resolved with an array of IPv6
addresses.

#### `dnsPromises.resolveAny(hostname)`#

Added in: v10.6.0

  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve all records (also known as `ANY` or `*`
query). On success, the `Promise` is resolved with an array containing various
types of records. Each object has a property `type` that indicates the type of
the current record. And depending on the `type`, additional properties will be
present on the object:

Type| Properties  
---|---  
`'A'`| `address`/`ttl`  
`'AAAA'`| `address`/`ttl`  
`'CNAME'`| `value`  
`'MX'`| Refer to `dnsPromises.resolveMx()`  
`'NAPTR'`| Refer to `dnsPromises.resolveNaptr()`  
`'NS'`| `value`  
`'PTR'`| `value`  
`'SOA'`| Refer to `dnsPromises.resolveSoa()`  
`'SRV'`| Refer to `dnsPromises.resolveSrv()`  
`'TLSA'`| Refer to `dnsPromises.resolveTlsa()`  
`'TXT'`| This type of record contains an array property called `entries` which
refers to `dnsPromises.resolveTxt()`, e.g. `{ entries: ['...'], type: 'TXT' }`  
  
Here is an example of the result object:

    
    
    [ { type: 'A', address: '127.0.0.1', ttl: 299 },
      { type: 'CNAME', value: 'example.com' },
      { type: 'MX', exchange: 'alt4.aspmx.l.example.com', priority: 50 },
      { type: 'NS', value: 'ns1.example.com' },
      { type: 'TXT', entries: [ 'v=spf1 include:_spf.example.com ~all' ] },
      { type: 'SOA',
        nsname: 'ns1.example.com',
        hostmaster: 'admin.example.com',
        serial: 156696742,
        refresh: 900,
        retry: 900,
        expire: 1800,
        minttl: 60 } ] copy

#### `dnsPromises.resolveCaa(hostname)`#

Added in: v15.0.0, v14.17.0

  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve `CAA` records for the `hostname`. On success,
the `Promise` is resolved with an array of objects containing available
certification authority authorization records available for the `hostname`
(e.g. `[{critical: 0, iodef: 'mailto:[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-
protection)'},{critical: 128, issue: 'pki.example.com'}]`).

#### `dnsPromises.resolveCname(hostname)`#

Added in: v10.6.0

  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve `CNAME` records for the `hostname`. On
success, the `Promise` is resolved with an array of canonical name records
available for the `hostname` (e.g. `['bar.example.com']`).

#### `dnsPromises.resolveMx(hostname)`#

Added in: v10.6.0

  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve mail exchange records (`MX` records) for the
`hostname`. On success, the `Promise` is resolved with an array of objects
containing both a `priority` and `exchange` property (e.g. `[{priority: 10,
exchange: 'mx.example.com'}, ...]`).

#### `dnsPromises.resolveNaptr(hostname)`#

Added in: v10.6.0

  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve regular expression-based records (`NAPTR`
records) for the `hostname`. On success, the `Promise` is resolved with an
array of objects with the following properties:

  * `flags`
  * `service`
  * `regexp`
  * `replacement`
  * `order`
  * `preference`

    
    
    {
      flags: 's',
      service: 'SIP+D2U',
      regexp: '',
      replacement: '_sip._udp.example.com',
      order: 30,
      preference: 100
    } copy

#### `dnsPromises.resolveNs(hostname)`#

Added in: v10.6.0

  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve name server records (`NS` records) for the
`hostname`. On success, the `Promise` is resolved with an array of name server
records available for `hostname` (e.g. `['ns1.example.com',
'ns2.example.com']`).

#### `dnsPromises.resolvePtr(hostname)`#

Added in: v10.6.0

  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve pointer records (`PTR` records) for the
`hostname`. On success, the `Promise` is resolved with an array of strings
containing the reply records.

#### `dnsPromises.resolveSoa(hostname)`#

Added in: v10.6.0

  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve a start of authority record (`SOA` record)
for the `hostname`. On success, the `Promise` is resolved with an object with
the following properties:

  * `nsname`
  * `hostmaster`
  * `serial`
  * `refresh`
  * `retry`
  * `expire`
  * `minttl`

    
    
    {
      nsname: 'ns.example.com',
      hostmaster: 'root.example.com',
      serial: 2013101809,
      refresh: 10000,
      retry: 2400,
      expire: 604800,
      minttl: 3600
    } copy

#### `dnsPromises.resolveSrv(hostname)`#

Added in: v10.6.0

  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve service records (`SRV` records) for the
`hostname`. On success, the `Promise` is resolved with an array of objects
with the following properties:

  * `priority`
  * `weight`
  * `port`
  * `name`

    
    
    {
      priority: 10,
      weight: 5,
      port: 21223,
      name: 'service.example.com'
    } copy

#### `dnsPromises.resolveTlsa(hostname)`#

Added in: v23.9.0

  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve certificate associations (`TLSA` records) for
the `hostname`. On success, the `Promise` is resolved with an array of objects
with these properties:

  * `certUsage`
  * `selector`
  * `match`
  * `data`

    
    
    {
      certUsage: 3,
      selector: 1,
      match: 1,
      data: [ArrayBuffer]
    } copy

#### `dnsPromises.resolveTxt(hostname)`#

Added in: v10.6.0

  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Uses the DNS protocol to resolve text queries (`TXT` records) for the
`hostname`. On success, the `Promise` is resolved with a two-dimensional array
of the text records available for `hostname` (e.g. `[ ['v=spf1 ip4:0.0.0.0 ',
'~all' ] ]`). Each sub-array contains TXT chunks of one record. Depending on
the use case, these could be either joined together or treated separately.

#### `dnsPromises.reverse(ip)`#

Added in: v10.6.0

  * `ip` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Performs a reverse DNS query that resolves an IPv4 or IPv6 address to an array
of host names.

On error, the `Promise` is rejected with an `Error` object, where `err.code`
is one of the DNS error codes.

#### `dnsPromises.setDefaultResultOrder(order)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.1.0, v20.13.0 | The `ipv6first` value is supported now.  
v17.0.0 | Changed default value to `verbatim`.  
v16.4.0, v14.18.0 | Added in: v16.4.0, v14.18.0  
  
  * `order` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) must be `'ipv4first'`, `'ipv6first'` or `'verbatim'`.

Set the default value of `order` in `dns.lookup()` and `dnsPromises.lookup()`.
The value could be:

  * `ipv4first`: sets default `order` to `ipv4first`.
  * `ipv6first`: sets default `order` to `ipv6first`.
  * `verbatim`: sets default `order` to `verbatim`.

The default is `verbatim` and `dnsPromises.setDefaultResultOrder()` have
higher priority than `--dns-result-order`. When using [worker
threads](worker_threads.html), `dnsPromises.setDefaultResultOrder()` from the
main thread won't affect the default dns orders in workers.

#### `dnsPromises.getDefaultResultOrder()`#

Added in: v20.1.0, v18.17.0

Get the value of `dnsOrder`.

#### `dnsPromises.setServers(servers)`#

Added in: v10.6.0

  * `servers` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) array of [RFC 5952](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5952#section-6) formatted addresses

Sets the IP address and port of servers to be used when performing DNS
resolution. The `servers` argument is an array of [RFC
5952](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5952#section-6) formatted addresses. If
the port is the IANA default DNS port (53) it can be omitted.

    
    
    dnsPromises.setServers([
      '8.8.8.8',
      '[2001:4860:4860::8888]',
      '8.8.8.8:1053',
      '[2001:4860:4860::8888]:1053',
    ]); copy

An error will be thrown if an invalid address is provided.

The `dnsPromises.setServers()` method must not be called while a DNS query is
in progress.

This method works much like [resolve.conf](https://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man5/resolv.conf.5.html). That is, if attempting to resolve with the
first server provided results in a `NOTFOUND` error, the `resolve()` method
will _not_ attempt to resolve with subsequent servers provided. Fallback DNS
servers will only be used if the earlier ones time out or result in some other
error.

### Error codes#

Each DNS query can return one of the following error codes:

  * `dns.NODATA`: DNS server returned an answer with no data.
  * `dns.FORMERR`: DNS server claims query was misformatted.
  * `dns.SERVFAIL`: DNS server returned general failure.
  * `dns.NOTFOUND`: Domain name not found.
  * `dns.NOTIMP`: DNS server does not implement the requested operation.
  * `dns.REFUSED`: DNS server refused query.
  * `dns.BADQUERY`: Misformatted DNS query.
  * `dns.BADNAME`: Misformatted host name.
  * `dns.BADFAMILY`: Unsupported address family.
  * `dns.BADRESP`: Misformatted DNS reply.
  * `dns.CONNREFUSED`: Could not contact DNS servers.
  * `dns.TIMEOUT`: Timeout while contacting DNS servers.
  * `dns.EOF`: End of file.
  * `dns.FILE`: Error reading file.
  * `dns.NOMEM`: Out of memory.
  * `dns.DESTRUCTION`: Channel is being destroyed.
  * `dns.BADSTR`: Misformatted string.
  * `dns.BADFLAGS`: Illegal flags specified.
  * `dns.NONAME`: Given host name is not numeric.
  * `dns.BADHINTS`: Illegal hints flags specified.
  * `dns.NOTINITIALIZED`: c-ares library initialization not yet performed.
  * `dns.LOADIPHLPAPI`: Error loading `iphlpapi.dll`.
  * `dns.ADDRGETNETWORKPARAMS`: Could not find `GetNetworkParams` function.
  * `dns.CANCELLED`: DNS query cancelled.

The `dnsPromises` API also exports the above error codes, e.g.,
`dnsPromises.NODATA`.

### Implementation considerations#

Although `dns.lookup()` and the various `dns.resolve*()/dns.reverse()`
functions have the same goal of associating a network name with a network
address (or vice versa), their behavior is quite different. These differences
can have subtle but significant consequences on the behavior of Node.js
programs.

#### `dns.lookup()`#

Under the hood, `dns.lookup()` uses the same operating system facilities as
most other programs. For instance, `dns.lookup()` will almost always resolve a
given name the same way as the `ping` command. On most POSIX-like operating
systems, the behavior of the `dns.lookup()` function can be modified by
changing settings in [`nsswitch.conf(5)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man5/nsswitch.conf.5.html) and/or
[`resolv.conf(5)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man5/resolv.conf.5.html),
but changing these files will change the behavior of all other programs
running on the same operating system.

Though the call to `dns.lookup()` will be asynchronous from JavaScript's
perspective, it is implemented as a synchronous call to
[`getaddrinfo(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/getaddrinfo.3.html)
that runs on libuv's threadpool. This can have surprising negative performance
implications for some applications, see the `UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE` documentation
for more information.

Various networking APIs will call `dns.lookup()` internally to resolve host
names. If that is an issue, consider resolving the host name to an address
using `dns.resolve()` and using the address instead of a host name. Also, some
networking APIs (such as `socket.connect()` and `dgram.createSocket()`) allow
the default resolver, `dns.lookup()`, to be replaced.

#### `dns.resolve()`, `dns.resolve*()`, and `dns.reverse()`#

These functions are implemented quite differently than `dns.lookup()`. They do
not use [`getaddrinfo(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man3/getaddrinfo.3.html) and they _always_ perform a DNS query on the
network. This network communication is always done asynchronously and does not
use libuv's threadpool.

As a result, these functions cannot have the same negative impact on other
processing that happens on libuv's threadpool that `dns.lookup()` can have.

They do not use the same set of configuration files that `dns.lookup()` uses.
For instance, they do not use the configuration from `/etc/hosts`.

## Domain#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.8.0 | Any `Promise`s created in VM contexts no longer have a `.domain` property. Their handlers are still executed in the proper domain, however, and `Promise`s created in the main context still possess a `.domain` property.  
v8.0.0 | Handlers for `Promise`s are now invoked in the domain in which the first promise of a chain was created.  
v1.4.2 | Deprecated since: v1.4.2  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated

**Source Code:**
[lib/domain.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/domain.js)

**This module is pending deprecation.** Once a replacement API has been
finalized, this module will be fully deprecated. Most developers should
**not** have cause to use this module. Users who absolutely must have the
functionality that domains provide may rely on it for the time being but
should expect to have to migrate to a different solution in the future.

Domains provide a way to handle multiple different IO operations as a single
group. If any of the event emitters or callbacks registered to a domain emit
an `'error'` event, or throw an error, then the domain object will be
notified, rather than losing the context of the error in the
`process.on('uncaughtException')` handler, or causing the program to exit
immediately with an error code.

### Warning: Don't ignore errors!#

Domain error handlers are not a substitute for closing down a process when an
error occurs.

By the very nature of how [`throw`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/throw) works in JavaScript, there
is almost never any way to safely "pick up where it left off", without leaking
references, or creating some other sort of undefined brittle state.

The safest way to respond to a thrown error is to shut down the process. Of
course, in a normal web server, there may be many open connections, and it is
not reasonable to abruptly shut those down because an error was triggered by
someone else.

The better approach is to send an error response to the request that triggered
the error, while letting the others finish in their normal time, and stop
listening for new requests in that worker.

In this way, `domain` usage goes hand-in-hand with the cluster module, since
the primary process can fork a new worker when a worker encounters an error.
For Node.js programs that scale to multiple machines, the terminating proxy or
service registry can take note of the failure, and react accordingly.

For example, this is not a good idea:

    
    
    // XXX WARNING! BAD IDEA!
    
    const d = require('node:domain').create();
    d.on('error', (er) => {
      // The error won't crash the process, but what it does is worse!
      // Though we've prevented abrupt process restarting, we are leaking
      // a lot of resources if this ever happens.
      // This is no better than process.on('uncaughtException')!
      console.log(`error, but oh well ${er.message}`);
    });
    d.run(() => {
      require('node:http').createServer((req, res) => {
        handleRequest(req, res);
      }).listen(PORT);
    }); copy

By using the context of a domain, and the resilience of separating our program
into multiple worker processes, we can react more appropriately, and handle
errors with much greater safety.

    
    
    // Much better!
    
    const cluster = require('node:cluster');
    const PORT = +process.env.PORT || 1337;
    
    if (cluster.isPrimary) {
      // A more realistic scenario would have more than 2 workers,
      // and perhaps not put the primary and worker in the same file.
      //
      // It is also possible to get a bit fancier about logging, and
      // implement whatever custom logic is needed to prevent DoS
      // attacks and other bad behavior.
      //
      // See the options in the cluster documentation.
      //
      // The important thing is that the primary does very little,
      // increasing our resilience to unexpected errors.
    
      cluster.fork();
      cluster.fork();
    
      cluster.on('disconnect', (worker) => {
        console.error('disconnect!');
        cluster.fork();
      });
    
    } else {
      // the worker
      //
      // This is where we put our bugs!
    
      const domain = require('node:domain');
    
      // See the cluster documentation for more details about using
      // worker processes to serve requests. How it works, caveats, etc.
    
      const server = require('node:http').createServer((req, res) => {
        const d = domain.create();
        d.on('error', (er) => {
          console.error(`error ${er.stack}`);
    
          // We're in dangerous territory!
          // By definition, something unexpected occurred,
          // which we probably didn't want.
          // Anything can happen now! Be very careful!
    
          try {
            // Make sure we close down within 30 seconds
            const killtimer = setTimeout(() => {
              process.exit(1);
            }, 30000);
            // But don't keep the process open just for that!
            killtimer.unref();
    
            // Stop taking new requests.
            server.close();
    
            // Let the primary know we're dead. This will trigger a
            // 'disconnect' in the cluster primary, and then it will fork
            // a new worker.
            cluster.worker.disconnect();
    
            // Try to send an error to the request that triggered the problem
            res.statusCode = 500;
            res.setHeader('content-type', 'text/plain');
            res.end('Oops, there was a problem!\n');
          } catch (er2) {
            // Oh well, not much we can do at this point.
            console.error(`Error sending 500! ${er2.stack}`);
          }
        });
    
        // Because req and res were created before this domain existed,
        // we need to explicitly add them.
        // See the explanation of implicit vs explicit binding below.
        d.add(req);
        d.add(res);
    
        // Now run the handler function in the domain.
        d.run(() => {
          handleRequest(req, res);
        });
      });
      server.listen(PORT);
    }
    
    // This part is not important. Just an example routing thing.
    // Put fancy application logic here.
    function handleRequest(req, res) {
      switch (req.url) {
        case '/error':
          // We do some async stuff, and then...
          setTimeout(() => {
            // Whoops!
            flerb.bark();
          }, timeout);
          break;
        default:
          res.end('ok');
      }
    } copy

### Additions to `Error` objects#

Any time an `Error` object is routed through a domain, a few extra fields are
added to it.

  * `error.domain` The domain that first handled the error.
  * `error.domainEmitter` The event emitter that emitted an `'error'` event with the error object.
  * `error.domainBound` The callback function which was bound to the domain, and passed an error as its first argument.
  * `error.domainThrown` A boolean indicating whether the error was thrown, emitted, or passed to a bound callback function.

### Implicit binding#

If domains are in use, then all **new** `EventEmitter` objects (including
Stream objects, requests, responses, etc.) will be implicitly bound to the
active domain at the time of their creation.

Additionally, callbacks passed to low-level event loop requests (such as to
`fs.open()`, or other callback-taking methods) will automatically be bound to
the active domain. If they throw, then the domain will catch the error.

In order to prevent excessive memory usage, `Domain` objects themselves are
not implicitly added as children of the active domain. If they were, then it
would be too easy to prevent request and response objects from being properly
garbage collected.

To nest `Domain` objects as children of a parent `Domain` they must be
explicitly added.

Implicit binding routes thrown errors and `'error'` events to the `Domain`'s
`'error'` event, but does not register the `EventEmitter` on the `Domain`.
Implicit binding only takes care of thrown errors and `'error'` events.

### Explicit binding#

Sometimes, the domain in use is not the one that ought to be used for a
specific event emitter. Or, the event emitter could have been created in the
context of one domain, but ought to instead be bound to some other domain.

For example, there could be one domain in use for an HTTP server, but perhaps
we would like to have a separate domain to use for each request.

That is possible via explicit binding.

    
    
    // Create a top-level domain for the server
    const domain = require('node:domain');
    const http = require('node:http');
    const serverDomain = domain.create();
    
    serverDomain.run(() => {
      // Server is created in the scope of serverDomain
      http.createServer((req, res) => {
        // Req and res are also created in the scope of serverDomain
        // however, we'd prefer to have a separate domain for each request.
        // create it first thing, and add req and res to it.
        const reqd = domain.create();
        reqd.add(req);
        reqd.add(res);
        reqd.on('error', (er) => {
          console.error('Error', er, req.url);
          try {
            res.writeHead(500);
            res.end('Error occurred, sorry.');
          } catch (er2) {
            console.error('Error sending 500', er2, req.url);
          }
        });
      }).listen(1337);
    }); copy

### `domain.create()`#

  * Returns: <Domain>

### Class: `Domain`#

  * Extends: <EventEmitter>

The `Domain` class encapsulates the functionality of routing errors and
uncaught exceptions to the active `Domain` object.

To handle the errors that it catches, listen to its `'error'` event.

#### `domain.members`#

  * [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array)

An array of timers and event emitters that have been explicitly added to the
domain.

#### `domain.add(emitter)`#

  * `emitter` <EventEmitter> | <Timer> emitter or timer to be added to the domain

Explicitly adds an emitter to the domain. If any event handlers called by the
emitter throw an error, or if the emitter emits an `'error'` event, it will be
routed to the domain's `'error'` event, just like with implicit binding.

This also works with timers that are returned from `setInterval()` and
`setTimeout()`. If their callback function throws, it will be caught by the
domain `'error'` handler.

If the Timer or `EventEmitter` was already bound to a domain, it is removed
from that one, and bound to this one instead.

#### `domain.bind(callback)`#

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The callback function
  * Returns: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The bound function

The returned function will be a wrapper around the supplied callback function.
When the returned function is called, any errors that are thrown will be
routed to the domain's `'error'` event.

    
    
    const d = domain.create();
    
    function readSomeFile(filename, cb) {
      fs.readFile(filename, 'utf8', d.bind((er, data) => {
        // If this throws, it will also be passed to the domain.
        return cb(er, data ? JSON.parse(data) : null);
      }));
    }
    
    d.on('error', (er) => {
      // An error occurred somewhere. If we throw it now, it will crash the program
      // with the normal line number and stack message.
    }); copy

#### `domain.enter()`#

The `enter()` method is plumbing used by the `run()`, `bind()`, and
`intercept()` methods to set the active domain. It sets `domain.active` and
`process.domain` to the domain, and implicitly pushes the domain onto the
domain stack managed by the domain module (see `domain.exit()` for details on
the domain stack). The call to `enter()` delimits the beginning of a chain of
asynchronous calls and I/O operations bound to a domain.

Calling `enter()` changes only the active domain, and does not alter the
domain itself. `enter()` and `exit()` can be called an arbitrary number of
times on a single domain.

#### `domain.exit()`#

The `exit()` method exits the current domain, popping it off the domain stack.
Any time execution is going to switch to the context of a different chain of
asynchronous calls, it's important to ensure that the current domain is
exited. The call to `exit()` delimits either the end of or an interruption to
the chain of asynchronous calls and I/O operations bound to a domain.

If there are multiple, nested domains bound to the current execution context,
`exit()` will exit any domains nested within this domain.

Calling `exit()` changes only the active domain, and does not alter the domain
itself. `enter()` and `exit()` can be called an arbitrary number of times on a
single domain.

#### `domain.intercept(callback)`#

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The callback function
  * Returns: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The intercepted function

This method is almost identical to `domain.bind(callback)`. However, in
addition to catching thrown errors, it will also intercept `Error` objects
sent as the first argument to the function.

In this way, the common `if (err) return callback(err);` pattern can be
replaced with a single error handler in a single place.

    
    
    const d = domain.create();
    
    function readSomeFile(filename, cb) {
      fs.readFile(filename, 'utf8', d.intercept((data) => {
        // Note, the first argument is never passed to the
        // callback since it is assumed to be the 'Error' argument
        // and thus intercepted by the domain.
    
        // If this throws, it will also be passed to the domain
        // so the error-handling logic can be moved to the 'error'
        // event on the domain instead of being repeated throughout
        // the program.
        return cb(null, JSON.parse(data));
      }));
    }
    
    d.on('error', (er) => {
      // An error occurred somewhere. If we throw it now, it will crash the program
      // with the normal line number and stack message.
    }); copy

#### `domain.remove(emitter)`#

  * `emitter` <EventEmitter> | <Timer> emitter or timer to be removed from the domain

The opposite of `domain.add(emitter)`. Removes domain handling from the
specified emitter.

#### `domain.run(fn[, ...args])`#

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Run the supplied function in the context of the domain, implicitly binding all
event emitters, timers, and low-level requests that are created in that
context. Optionally, arguments can be passed to the function.

This is the most basic way to use a domain.

    
    
    const domain = require('node:domain');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const d = domain.create();
    d.on('error', (er) => {
      console.error('Caught error!', er);
    });
    d.run(() => {
      process.nextTick(() => {
        setTimeout(() => { // Simulating some various async stuff
          fs.open('non-existent file', 'r', (er, fd) => {
            if (er) throw er;
            // proceed...
          });
        }, 100);
      });
    }); copy

In this example, the `d.on('error')` handler will be triggered, rather than
crashing the program.

### Domains and promises#

As of Node.js 8.0.0, the handlers of promises are run inside the domain in
which the call to `.then()` or `.catch()` itself was made:

    
    
    const d1 = domain.create();
    const d2 = domain.create();
    
    let p;
    d1.run(() => {
      p = Promise.resolve(42);
    });
    
    d2.run(() => {
      p.then((v) => {
        // running in d2
      });
    }); copy

A callback may be bound to a specific domain using `domain.bind(callback)`:

    
    
    const d1 = domain.create();
    const d2 = domain.create();
    
    let p;
    d1.run(() => {
      p = Promise.resolve(42);
    });
    
    d2.run(() => {
      p.then(p.domain.bind((v) => {
        // running in d1
      }));
    }); copy

Domains will not interfere with the error handling mechanisms for promises. In
other words, no `'error'` event will be emitted for unhandled `Promise`
rejections.

## Errors#

Applications running in Node.js will generally experience four categories of
errors:

  * Standard JavaScript errors such as [<EvalError>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/EvalError), [<SyntaxError>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SyntaxError), [<RangeError>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RangeError), [<ReferenceError>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ReferenceError), [<TypeError>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypeError), and [<URIError>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/URIError).
  * System errors triggered by underlying operating system constraints such as attempting to open a file that does not exist or attempting to send data over a closed socket.
  * User-specified errors triggered by application code.
  * `AssertionError`s are a special class of error that can be triggered when Node.js detects an exceptional logic violation that should never occur. These are raised typically by the `node:assert` module.

All JavaScript and system errors raised by Node.js inherit from, or are
instances of, the standard JavaScript
[<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) class and are
guaranteed to provide _at least_ the properties available on that class.

### Error propagation and interception#

Node.js supports several mechanisms for propagating and handling errors that
occur while an application is running. How these errors are reported and
handled depends entirely on the type of `Error` and the style of the API that
is called.

All JavaScript errors are handled as exceptions that _immediately_ generate
and throw an error using the standard JavaScript `throw` mechanism. These are
handled using the [`try…catch` construct](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/try...catch) provided by the
JavaScript language.

    
    
    // Throws with a ReferenceError because z is not defined.
    try {
      const m = 1;
      const n = m + z;
    } catch (err) {
      // Handle the error here.
    } copy

Any use of the JavaScript `throw` mechanism will raise an exception that
_must_ be handled or the Node.js process will exit immediately.

With few exceptions, _Synchronous_ APIs (any blocking method that does not
return a [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) nor accept a
`callback` function, such as `fs.readFileSync`), will use `throw` to report
errors.

Errors that occur within _Asynchronous APIs_ may be reported in multiple ways:

  * Some asynchronous methods returns a [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise), you should always take into account that it might be rejected. See `--unhandled-rejections` flag for how the process will react to an unhandled promise rejection.
    
        const fs = require('node:fs/promises');
    
    (async () => {
      let data;
      try {
        data = await fs.readFile('a file that does not exist');
      } catch (err) {
        console.error('There was an error reading the file!', err);
        return;
      }
      // Otherwise handle the data
    })(); copy

  * Most asynchronous methods that accept a `callback` function will accept an `Error` object passed as the first argument to that function. If that first argument is not `null` and is an instance of `Error`, then an error occurred that should be handled.
    
        const fs = require('node:fs');
    fs.readFile('a file that does not exist', (err, data) => {
      if (err) {
        console.error('There was an error reading the file!', err);
        return;
      }
      // Otherwise handle the data
    }); copy

  * When an asynchronous method is called on an object that is an `EventEmitter`, errors can be routed to that object's `'error'` event.
    
        const net = require('node:net');
    const connection = net.connect('localhost');
    
    // Adding an 'error' event handler to a stream:
    connection.on('error', (err) => {
      // If the connection is reset by the server, or if it can't
      // connect at all, or on any sort of error encountered by
      // the connection, the error will be sent here.
      console.error(err);
    });
    
    connection.pipe(process.stdout); copy

  * A handful of typically asynchronous methods in the Node.js API may still use the `throw` mechanism to raise exceptions that must be handled using `try…catch`. There is no comprehensive list of such methods; please refer to the documentation of each method to determine the appropriate error handling mechanism required.

The use of the `'error'` event mechanism is most common for [stream-
based](stream.html) and event emitter-based APIs, which themselves represent a
series of asynchronous operations over time (as opposed to a single operation
that may pass or fail).

For _all_ `EventEmitter` objects, if an `'error'` event handler is not
provided, the error will be thrown, causing the Node.js process to report an
uncaught exception and crash unless either: a handler has been registered for
the `'uncaughtException'` event, or the deprecated
[`node:domain`](domain.html) module is used.

    
    
    const EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    const ee = new EventEmitter();
    
    setImmediate(() => {
      // This will crash the process because no 'error' event
      // handler has been added.
      ee.emit('error', new Error('This will crash'));
    }); copy

Errors generated in this way _cannot_ be intercepted using `try…catch` as they
are thrown _after_ the calling code has already exited.

Developers must refer to the documentation for each method to determine
exactly how errors raised by those methods are propagated.

### Class: `Error`#

A generic JavaScript [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) object that does not
denote any specific circumstance of why the error occurred. `Error` objects
capture a "stack trace" detailing the point in the code at which the `Error`
was instantiated, and may provide a text description of the error.

All errors generated by Node.js, including all system and JavaScript errors,
will either be instances of, or inherit from, the `Error` class.

#### `new Error(message[, options])`#

  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `cause` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The error that caused the newly created error.

Creates a new `Error` object and sets the `error.message` property to the
provided text message. If an object is passed as `message`, the text message
is generated by calling `String(message)`. If the `cause` option is provided,
it is assigned to the `error.cause` property. The `error.stack` property will
represent the point in the code at which `new Error()` was called. Stack
traces are dependent on [V8's stack trace API](https://v8.dev/docs/stack-
trace-api). Stack traces extend only to either (a) the beginning of
_synchronous code execution_ , or (b) the number of frames given by the
property `Error.stackTraceLimit`, whichever is smaller.

#### `Error.captureStackTrace(targetObject[, constructorOpt])`#

  * `targetObject` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * `constructorOpt` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Creates a `.stack` property on `targetObject`, which when accessed returns a
string representing the location in the code at which
`Error.captureStackTrace()` was called.

    
    
    const myObject = {};
    Error.captureStackTrace(myObject);
    myObject.stack;  // Similar to `new Error().stack` copy

The first line of the trace will be prefixed with `${myObject.name}:
${myObject.message}`.

The optional `constructorOpt` argument accepts a function. If given, all
frames above `constructorOpt`, including `constructorOpt`, will be omitted
from the generated stack trace.

The `constructorOpt` argument is useful for hiding implementation details of
error generation from the user. For instance:

    
    
    function a() {
      b();
    }
    
    function b() {
      c();
    }
    
    function c() {
      // Create an error without stack trace to avoid calculating the stack trace twice.
      const { stackTraceLimit } = Error;
      Error.stackTraceLimit = 0;
      const error = new Error();
      Error.stackTraceLimit = stackTraceLimit;
    
      // Capture the stack trace above function b
      Error.captureStackTrace(error, b); // Neither function c, nor b is included in the stack trace
      throw error;
    }
    
    a(); copy

#### `Error.stackTraceLimit`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `Error.stackTraceLimit` property specifies the number of stack frames
collected by a stack trace (whether generated by `new Error().stack` or
`Error.captureStackTrace(obj)`).

The default value is `10` but may be set to any valid JavaScript number.
Changes will affect any stack trace captured _after_ the value has been
changed.

If set to a non-number value, or set to a negative number, stack traces will
not capture any frames.

#### `error.cause`#

Added in: v16.9.0

  * [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

If present, the `error.cause` property is the underlying cause of the `Error`.
It is used when catching an error and throwing a new one with a different
message or code in order to still have access to the original error.

The `error.cause` property is typically set by calling `new Error(message, {
cause })`. It is not set by the constructor if the `cause` option is not
provided.

This property allows errors to be chained. When serializing `Error` objects,
`util.inspect()` recursively serializes `error.cause` if it is set.

    
    
    const cause = new Error('The remote HTTP server responded with a 500 status');
    const symptom = new Error('The message failed to send', { cause });
    
    console.log(symptom);
    // Prints:
    //   Error: The message failed to send
    //       at REPL2:1:17
    //       at Script.runInThisContext (node:vm:130:12)
    //       ... 7 lines matching cause stack trace ...
    //       at [_line] [as _line] (node:internal/readline/interface:886:18) {
    //     [cause]: Error: The remote HTTP server responded with a 500 status
    //         at REPL1:1:15
    //         at Script.runInThisContext (node:vm:130:12)
    //         at REPLServer.defaultEval (node:repl:574:29)
    //         at bound (node:domain:426:15)
    //         at REPLServer.runBound [as eval] (node:domain:437:12)
    //         at REPLServer.onLine (node:repl:902:10)
    //         at REPLServer.emit (node:events:549:35)
    //         at REPLServer.emit (node:domain:482:12)
    //         at [_onLine] [as _onLine] (node:internal/readline/interface:425:12)
    //         at [_line] [as _line] (node:internal/readline/interface:886:18) copy

#### `error.code`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `error.code` property is a string label that identifies the kind of error.
`error.code` is the most stable way to identify an error. It will only change
between major versions of Node.js. In contrast, `error.message` strings may
change between any versions of Node.js. See Node.js error codes for details
about specific codes.

#### `error.message`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `error.message` property is the string description of the error as set by
calling `new Error(message)`. The `message` passed to the constructor will
also appear in the first line of the stack trace of the `Error`, however
changing this property after the `Error` object is created _may not_ change
the first line of the stack trace (for example, when `error.stack` is read
before this property is changed).

    
    
    const err = new Error('The message');
    console.error(err.message);
    // Prints: The message copy

#### `error.stack`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `error.stack` property is a string describing the point in the code at
which the `Error` was instantiated.

    
    
    Error: Things keep happening!
       at /home/gbusey/file.js:525:2
       at Frobnicator.refrobulate (/home/gbusey/business-logic.js:424:21)
       at Actor.<anonymous> (/home/gbusey/actors.js:400:8)
       at increaseSynergy (/home/gbusey/actors.js:701:6) copy

The first line is formatted as `<error class name>: <error message>`, and is
followed by a series of stack frames (each line beginning with "at "). Each
frame describes a call site within the code that lead to the error being
generated. V8 attempts to display a name for each function (by variable name,
function name, or object method name), but occasionally it will not be able to
find a suitable name. If V8 cannot determine a name for the function, only
location information will be displayed for that frame. Otherwise, the
determined function name will be displayed with location information appended
in parentheses.

Frames are only generated for JavaScript functions. If, for example, execution
synchronously passes through a C++ addon function called `cheetahify` which
itself calls a JavaScript function, the frame representing the `cheetahify`
call will not be present in the stack traces:

    
    
    const cheetahify = require('./native-binding.node');
    
    function makeFaster() {
      // `cheetahify()` *synchronously* calls speedy.
      cheetahify(function speedy() {
        throw new Error('oh no!');
      });
    }
    
    makeFaster();
    // will throw:
    //   /home/gbusey/file.js:6
    //       throw new Error('oh no!');
    //           ^
    //   Error: oh no!
    //       at speedy (/home/gbusey/file.js:6:11)
    //       at makeFaster (/home/gbusey/file.js:5:3)
    //       at Object.<anonymous> (/home/gbusey/file.js:10:1)
    //       at Module._compile (module.js:456:26)
    //       at Object.Module._extensions..js (module.js:474:10)
    //       at Module.load (module.js:356:32)
    //       at Function.Module._load (module.js:312:12)
    //       at Function.Module.runMain (module.js:497:10)
    //       at startup (node.js:119:16)
    //       at node.js:906:3 copy

The location information will be one of:

  * `native`, if the frame represents a call internal to V8 (as in `[].forEach`).
  * `plain-filename.js:line:column`, if the frame represents a call internal to Node.js.
  * `/absolute/path/to/file.js:line:column`, if the frame represents a call in a user program (using CommonJS module system), or its dependencies.
  * `<transport-protocol>:///url/to/module/file.mjs:line:column`, if the frame represents a call in a user program (using ES module system), or its dependencies.

The string representing the stack trace is lazily generated when the
`error.stack` property is **accessed**.

The number of frames captured by the stack trace is bounded by the smaller of
`Error.stackTraceLimit` or the number of available frames on the current event
loop tick.

### Class: `AssertionError`#

  * Extends: <errors.Error>

Indicates the failure of an assertion. For details, see `Class:
assert.AssertionError`.

### Class: `RangeError`#

  * Extends: <errors.Error>

Indicates that a provided argument was not within the set or range of
acceptable values for a function; whether that is a numeric range, or outside
the set of options for a given function parameter.

    
    
    require('node:net').connect(-1);
    // Throws "RangeError: "port" option should be >= 0 and < 65536: -1" copy

Node.js will generate and throw `RangeError` instances _immediately_ as a form
of argument validation.

### Class: `ReferenceError`#

  * Extends: <errors.Error>

Indicates that an attempt is being made to access a variable that is not
defined. Such errors commonly indicate typos in code, or an otherwise broken
program.

While client code may generate and propagate these errors, in practice, only
V8 will do so.

    
    
    doesNotExist;
    // Throws ReferenceError, doesNotExist is not a variable in this program. copy

Unless an application is dynamically generating and running code,
`ReferenceError` instances indicate a bug in the code or its dependencies.

### Class: `SyntaxError`#

  * Extends: <errors.Error>

Indicates that a program is not valid JavaScript. These errors may only be
generated and propagated as a result of code evaluation. Code evaluation may
happen as a result of `eval`, `Function`, `require`, or [vm](vm.html). These
errors are almost always indicative of a broken program.

    
    
    try {
      require('node:vm').runInThisContext('binary ! isNotOk');
    } catch (err) {
      // 'err' will be a SyntaxError.
    } copy

`SyntaxError` instances are unrecoverable in the context that created them –
they may only be caught by other contexts.

### Class: `SystemError`#

  * Extends: <errors.Error>

Node.js generates system errors when exceptions occur within its runtime
environment. These usually occur when an application violates an operating
system constraint. For example, a system error will occur if an application
attempts to read a file that does not exist.

  * `address` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If present, the address to which a network connection failed
  * `code` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The string error code
  * `dest` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If present, the file path destination when reporting a file system error
  * `errno` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The system-provided error number
  * `info` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) If present, extra details about the error condition
  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A system-provided human-readable description of the error
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If present, the file path when reporting a file system error
  * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) If present, the network connection port that is not available
  * `syscall` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The name of the system call that triggered the error

#### `error.address`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

If present, `error.address` is a string describing the address to which a
network connection failed.

#### `error.code`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `error.code` property is a string representing the error code.

#### `error.dest`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

If present, `error.dest` is the file path destination when reporting a file
system error.

#### `error.errno`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `error.errno` property is a negative number which corresponds to the error
code defined in [`libuv Error
handling`](https://docs.libuv.org/en/v1.x/errors.html).

On Windows the error number provided by the system will be normalized by
libuv.

To get the string representation of the error code, use
`util.getSystemErrorName(error.errno)`.

#### `error.info`#

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

If present, `error.info` is an object with details about the error condition.

#### `error.message`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

`error.message` is a system-provided human-readable description of the error.

#### `error.path`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

If present, `error.path` is a string containing a relevant invalid pathname.

#### `error.port`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

If present, `error.port` is the network connection port that is not available.

#### `error.syscall`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `error.syscall` property is a string describing the
[syscall](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/syscalls.2.html) that failed.

#### Common system errors#

This is a list of system errors commonly-encountered when writing a Node.js
program. For a comprehensive list, see the [`errno`(3) man
page](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/errno.3.html).

  * `EACCES` (Permission denied): An attempt was made to access a file in a way forbidden by its file access permissions.

  * `EADDRINUSE` (Address already in use): An attempt to bind a server ([`net`](net.html), [`http`](http.html), or [`https`](https.html)) to a local address failed due to another server on the local system already occupying that address.

  * `ECONNREFUSED` (Connection refused): No connection could be made because the target machine actively refused it. This usually results from trying to connect to a service that is inactive on the foreign host.

  * `ECONNRESET` (Connection reset by peer): A connection was forcibly closed by a peer. This normally results from a loss of the connection on the remote socket due to a timeout or reboot. Commonly encountered via the [`http`](http.html) and [`net`](net.html) modules.

  * `EEXIST` (File exists): An existing file was the target of an operation that required that the target not exist.

  * `EISDIR` (Is a directory): An operation expected a file, but the given pathname was a directory.

  * `EMFILE` (Too many open files in system): Maximum number of [file descriptors](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File_descriptor) allowable on the system has been reached, and requests for another descriptor cannot be fulfilled until at least one has been closed. This is encountered when opening many files at once in parallel, especially on systems (in particular, macOS) where there is a low file descriptor limit for processes. To remedy a low limit, run `ulimit -n 2048` in the same shell that will run the Node.js process.

  * `ENOENT` (No such file or directory): Commonly raised by [`fs`](fs.html) operations to indicate that a component of the specified pathname does not exist. No entity (file or directory) could be found by the given path.

  * `ENOTDIR` (Not a directory): A component of the given pathname existed, but was not a directory as expected. Commonly raised by `fs.readdir`.

  * `ENOTEMPTY` (Directory not empty): A directory with entries was the target of an operation that requires an empty directory, usually `fs.unlink`.

  * `ENOTFOUND` (DNS lookup failed): Indicates a DNS failure of either `EAI_NODATA` or `EAI_NONAME`. This is not a standard POSIX error.

  * `EPERM` (Operation not permitted): An attempt was made to perform an operation that requires elevated privileges.

  * `EPIPE` (Broken pipe): A write on a pipe, socket, or FIFO for which there is no process to read the data. Commonly encountered at the [`net`](net.html) and [`http`](http.html) layers, indicative that the remote side of the stream being written to has been closed.

  * `ETIMEDOUT` (Operation timed out): A connect or send request failed because the connected party did not properly respond after a period of time. Usually encountered by [`http`](http.html) or [`net`](net.html). Often a sign that a `socket.end()` was not properly called.

### Class: `TypeError`#

  * Extends <errors.Error>

Indicates that a provided argument is not an allowable type. For example,
passing a function to a parameter which expects a string would be a
`TypeError`.

    
    
    require('node:url').parse(() => { });
    // Throws TypeError, since it expected a string. copy

Node.js will generate and throw `TypeError` instances _immediately_ as a form
of argument validation.

### Exceptions vs. errors#

A JavaScript exception is a value that is thrown as a result of an invalid
operation or as the target of a `throw` statement. While it is not required
that these values are instances of `Error` or classes which inherit from
`Error`, all exceptions thrown by Node.js or the JavaScript runtime _will_ be
instances of `Error`.

Some exceptions are _unrecoverable_ at the JavaScript layer. Such exceptions
will _always_ cause the Node.js process to crash. Examples include `assert()`
checks or `abort()` calls in the C++ layer.

### OpenSSL errors#

Errors originating in `crypto` or `tls` are of class `Error`, and in addition
to the standard `.code` and `.message` properties, may have some additional
OpenSSL-specific properties.

#### `error.opensslErrorStack`#

An array of errors that can give context to where in the OpenSSL library an
error originates from.

#### `error.function`#

The OpenSSL function the error originates in.

#### `error.library`#

The OpenSSL library the error originates in.

#### `error.reason`#

A human-readable string describing the reason for the error.

### Node.js error codes#

#### `ABORT_ERR`#

Added in: v15.0.0

Used when an operation has been aborted (typically using an
`AbortController`).

APIs _not_ using `AbortSignal`s typically do not raise an error with this
code.

This code does not use the regular `ERR_*` convention Node.js errors use in
order to be compatible with the web platform's `AbortError`.

#### `ERR_ACCESS_DENIED`#

A special type of error that is triggered whenever Node.js tries to get access
to a resource restricted by the Permission Model.

#### `ERR_AMBIGUOUS_ARGUMENT`#

A function argument is being used in a way that suggests that the function
signature may be misunderstood. This is thrown by the `node:assert` module
when the `message` parameter in `assert.throws(block, message)` matches the
error message thrown by `block` because that usage suggests that the user
believes `message` is the expected message rather than the message the
`AssertionError` will display if `block` does not throw.

#### `ERR_ARG_NOT_ITERABLE`#

An iterable argument (i.e. a value that works with `for...of` loops) was
required, but not provided to a Node.js API.

#### `ERR_ASSERTION`#

A special type of error that can be triggered whenever Node.js detects an
exceptional logic violation that should never occur. These are raised
typically by the `node:assert` module.

#### `ERR_ASYNC_CALLBACK`#

An attempt was made to register something that is not a function as an
`AsyncHooks` callback.

#### `ERR_ASYNC_TYPE`#

The type of an asynchronous resource was invalid. Users are also able to
define their own types if using the public embedder API.

#### `ERR_BROTLI_COMPRESSION_FAILED`#

Data passed to a Brotli stream was not successfully compressed.

#### `ERR_BROTLI_INVALID_PARAM`#

An invalid parameter key was passed during construction of a Brotli stream.

#### `ERR_BUFFER_CONTEXT_NOT_AVAILABLE`#

An attempt was made to create a Node.js `Buffer` instance from addon or
embedder code, while in a JS engine Context that is not associated with a
Node.js instance. The data passed to the `Buffer` method will have been
released by the time the method returns.

When encountering this error, a possible alternative to creating a `Buffer`
instance is to create a normal `Uint8Array`, which only differs in the
prototype of the resulting object. `Uint8Array`s are generally accepted in all
Node.js core APIs where `Buffer`s are; they are available in all Contexts.

#### `ERR_BUFFER_OUT_OF_BOUNDS`#

An operation outside the bounds of a `Buffer` was attempted.

#### `ERR_BUFFER_TOO_LARGE`#

An attempt has been made to create a `Buffer` larger than the maximum allowed
size.

#### `ERR_CANNOT_WATCH_SIGINT`#

Node.js was unable to watch for the `SIGINT` signal.

#### `ERR_CHILD_CLOSED_BEFORE_REPLY`#

A child process was closed before the parent received a reply.

#### `ERR_CHILD_PROCESS_IPC_REQUIRED`#

Used when a child process is being forked without specifying an IPC channel.

#### `ERR_CHILD_PROCESS_STDIO_MAXBUFFER`#

Used when the main process is trying to read data from the child process's
STDERR/STDOUT, and the data's length is longer than the `maxBuffer` option.

#### `ERR_CLOSED_MESSAGE_PORT`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.2.0, v14.17.1 | The error message was reintroduced.  
v11.12.0 | The error message was removed.  
v10.5.0 | Added in: v10.5.0  
  
There was an attempt to use a `MessagePort` instance in a closed state,
usually after `.close()` has been called.

#### `ERR_CONSOLE_WRITABLE_STREAM`#

`Console` was instantiated without `stdout` stream, or `Console` has a non-
writable `stdout` or `stderr` stream.

#### `ERR_CONSTRUCT_CALL_INVALID`#

Added in: v12.5.0

A class constructor was called that is not callable.

#### `ERR_CONSTRUCT_CALL_REQUIRED`#

A constructor for a class was called without `new`.

#### `ERR_CONTEXT_NOT_INITIALIZED`#

The vm context passed into the API is not yet initialized. This could happen
when an error occurs (and is caught) during the creation of the context, for
example, when the allocation fails or the maximum call stack size is reached
when the context is created.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_CUSTOM_ENGINE_NOT_SUPPORTED`#

An OpenSSL engine was requested (for example, through the `clientCertEngine`
or `privateKeyEngine` TLS options) that is not supported by the version of
OpenSSL being used, likely due to the compile-time flag `OPENSSL_NO_ENGINE`.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_ECDH_INVALID_FORMAT`#

An invalid value for the `format` argument was passed to the `crypto.ECDH()`
class `getPublicKey()` method.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_ECDH_INVALID_PUBLIC_KEY`#

An invalid value for the `key` argument has been passed to the `crypto.ECDH()`
class `computeSecret()` method. It means that the public key lies outside of
the elliptic curve.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_ENGINE_UNKNOWN`#

An invalid crypto engine identifier was passed to
`require('node:crypto').setEngine()`.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_FIPS_FORCED`#

The `--force-fips` command-line argument was used but there was an attempt to
enable or disable FIPS mode in the `node:crypto` module.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_FIPS_UNAVAILABLE`#

An attempt was made to enable or disable FIPS mode, but FIPS mode was not
available.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_HASH_FINALIZED`#

`hash.digest()` was called multiple times. The `hash.digest()` method must be
called no more than one time per instance of a `Hash` object.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_HASH_UPDATE_FAILED`#

`hash.update()` failed for any reason. This should rarely, if ever, happen.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_INCOMPATIBLE_KEY`#

The given crypto keys are incompatible with the attempted operation.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_INCOMPATIBLE_KEY_OPTIONS`#

The selected public or private key encoding is incompatible with other
options.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_INITIALIZATION_FAILED`#

Added in: v15.0.0

Initialization of the crypto subsystem failed.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_INVALID_AUTH_TAG`#

Added in: v15.0.0

An invalid authentication tag was provided.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_INVALID_COUNTER`#

Added in: v15.0.0

An invalid counter was provided for a counter-mode cipher.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_INVALID_CURVE`#

Added in: v15.0.0

An invalid elliptic-curve was provided.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_INVALID_DIGEST`#

An invalid crypto digest algorithm was specified.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_INVALID_IV`#

Added in: v15.0.0

An invalid initialization vector was provided.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_INVALID_JWK`#

Added in: v15.0.0

An invalid JSON Web Key was provided.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_INVALID_KEYLEN`#

Added in: v15.0.0

An invalid key length was provided.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_INVALID_KEYPAIR`#

Added in: v15.0.0

An invalid key pair was provided.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_INVALID_KEYTYPE`#

Added in: v15.0.0

An invalid key type was provided.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_INVALID_KEY_OBJECT_TYPE`#

The given crypto key object's type is invalid for the attempted operation.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_INVALID_MESSAGELEN`#

Added in: v15.0.0

An invalid message length was provided.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_INVALID_SCRYPT_PARAMS`#

Added in: v15.0.0

One or more `crypto.scrypt()` or `crypto.scryptSync()` parameters are outside
their legal range.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_INVALID_STATE`#

A crypto method was used on an object that was in an invalid state. For
instance, calling `cipher.getAuthTag()` before calling `cipher.final()`.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_INVALID_TAG_LENGTH`#

Added in: v15.0.0

An invalid authentication tag length was provided.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_JOB_INIT_FAILED`#

Added in: v15.0.0

Initialization of an asynchronous crypto operation failed.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_JWK_UNSUPPORTED_CURVE`#

Key's Elliptic Curve is not registered for use in the [JSON Web Key Elliptic
Curve Registry](https://www.iana.org/assignments/jose/jose.xhtml#web-key-
elliptic-curve).

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_JWK_UNSUPPORTED_KEY_TYPE`#

Key's Asymmetric Key Type is not registered for use in the [JSON Web Key Types
Registry](https://www.iana.org/assignments/jose/jose.xhtml#web-key-types).

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_OPERATION_FAILED`#

Added in: v15.0.0

A crypto operation failed for an otherwise unspecified reason.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_PBKDF2_ERROR`#

The PBKDF2 algorithm failed for unspecified reasons. OpenSSL does not provide
more details and therefore neither does Node.js.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_SCRYPT_NOT_SUPPORTED`#

Node.js was compiled without `scrypt` support. Not possible with the official
release binaries but can happen with custom builds, including distro builds.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_SIGN_KEY_REQUIRED`#

A signing `key` was not provided to the `sign.sign()` method.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_TIMING_SAFE_EQUAL_LENGTH`#

`crypto.timingSafeEqual()` was called with `Buffer`, `TypedArray`, or
`DataView` arguments of different lengths.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_UNKNOWN_CIPHER`#

An unknown cipher was specified.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_UNKNOWN_DH_GROUP`#

An unknown Diffie-Hellman group name was given. See
`crypto.getDiffieHellman()` for a list of valid group names.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_UNSUPPORTED_OPERATION`#

Added in: v15.0.0, v14.18.0

An attempt to invoke an unsupported crypto operation was made.

#### `ERR_DEBUGGER_ERROR`#

Added in: v16.4.0, v14.17.4

An error occurred with the [debugger](debugger.html).

#### `ERR_DEBUGGER_STARTUP_ERROR`#

Added in: v16.4.0, v14.17.4

The [debugger](debugger.html) timed out waiting for the required host/port to
be free.

#### `ERR_DIR_CLOSED`#

The `fs.Dir` was previously closed.

#### `ERR_DIR_CONCURRENT_OPERATION`#

Added in: v14.3.0

A synchronous read or close call was attempted on an `fs.Dir` which has
ongoing asynchronous operations.

#### `ERR_DLOPEN_DISABLED`#

Added in: v16.10.0, v14.19.0

Loading native addons has been disabled using `--no-addons`.

#### `ERR_DLOPEN_FAILED`#

Added in: v15.0.0

A call to `process.dlopen()` failed.

#### `ERR_DNS_SET_SERVERS_FAILED`#

`c-ares` failed to set the DNS server.

#### `ERR_DOMAIN_CALLBACK_NOT_AVAILABLE`#

The `node:domain` module was not usable since it could not establish the
required error handling hooks, because
`process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback()` had been called at an earlier
point in time.

#### `ERR_DOMAIN_CANNOT_SET_UNCAUGHT_EXCEPTION_CAPTURE`#

`process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback()` could not be called because
the `node:domain` module has been loaded at an earlier point in time.

The stack trace is extended to include the point in time at which the
`node:domain` module had been loaded.

#### `ERR_DUPLICATE_STARTUP_SNAPSHOT_MAIN_FUNCTION`#

`v8.startupSnapshot.setDeserializeMainFunction()` could not be called because
it had already been called before.

#### `ERR_ENCODING_INVALID_ENCODED_DATA`#

Data provided to `TextDecoder()` API was invalid according to the encoding
provided.

#### `ERR_ENCODING_NOT_SUPPORTED`#

Encoding provided to `TextDecoder()` API was not one of the WHATWG Supported
Encodings.

#### `ERR_EVAL_ESM_CANNOT_PRINT`#

`--print` cannot be used with ESM input.

#### `ERR_EVENT_RECURSION`#

Thrown when an attempt is made to recursively dispatch an event on
`EventTarget`.

#### `ERR_EXECUTION_ENVIRONMENT_NOT_AVAILABLE`#

The JS execution context is not associated with a Node.js environment. This
may occur when Node.js is used as an embedded library and some hooks for the
JS engine are not set up properly.

#### `ERR_FALSY_VALUE_REJECTION`#

A `Promise` that was callbackified via `util.callbackify()` was rejected with
a falsy value.

#### `ERR_FEATURE_UNAVAILABLE_ON_PLATFORM`#

Added in: v14.0.0

Used when a feature that is not available to the current platform which is
running Node.js is used.

#### `ERR_FS_CP_DIR_TO_NON_DIR`#

Added in: v16.7.0

An attempt was made to copy a directory to a non-directory (file, symlink,
etc.) using `fs.cp()`.

#### `ERR_FS_CP_EEXIST`#

Added in: v16.7.0

An attempt was made to copy over a file that already existed with `fs.cp()`,
with the `force` and `errorOnExist` set to `true`.

#### `ERR_FS_CP_EINVAL`#

Added in: v16.7.0

When using `fs.cp()`, `src` or `dest` pointed to an invalid path.

#### `ERR_FS_CP_FIFO_PIPE`#

Added in: v16.7.0

An attempt was made to copy a named pipe with `fs.cp()`.

#### `ERR_FS_CP_NON_DIR_TO_DIR`#

Added in: v16.7.0

An attempt was made to copy a non-directory (file, symlink, etc.) to a
directory using `fs.cp()`.

#### `ERR_FS_CP_SOCKET`#

Added in: v16.7.0

An attempt was made to copy to a socket with `fs.cp()`.

#### `ERR_FS_CP_SYMLINK_TO_SUBDIRECTORY`#

Added in: v16.7.0

When using `fs.cp()`, a symlink in `dest` pointed to a subdirectory of `src`.

#### `ERR_FS_CP_UNKNOWN`#

Added in: v16.7.0

An attempt was made to copy to an unknown file type with `fs.cp()`.

#### `ERR_FS_EISDIR`#

Path is a directory.

#### `ERR_FS_FILE_TOO_LARGE`#

An attempt has been made to read a file whose size is larger than the maximum
allowed size for a `Buffer`.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_ALTSVC_INVALID_ORIGIN`#

HTTP/2 ALTSVC frames require a valid origin.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_ALTSVC_LENGTH`#

HTTP/2 ALTSVC frames are limited to a maximum of 16,382 payload bytes.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_CONNECT_AUTHORITY`#

For HTTP/2 requests using the `CONNECT` method, the `:authority` pseudo-header
is required.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_CONNECT_PATH`#

For HTTP/2 requests using the `CONNECT` method, the `:path` pseudo-header is
forbidden.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_CONNECT_SCHEME`#

For HTTP/2 requests using the `CONNECT` method, the `:scheme` pseudo-header is
forbidden.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_ERROR`#

A non-specific HTTP/2 error has occurred.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_GOAWAY_SESSION`#

New HTTP/2 Streams may not be opened after the `Http2Session` has received a
`GOAWAY` frame from the connected peer.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_HEADERS_AFTER_RESPOND`#

An additional headers was specified after an HTTP/2 response was initiated.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_HEADERS_SENT`#

An attempt was made to send multiple response headers.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_HEADER_SINGLE_VALUE`#

Multiple values were provided for an HTTP/2 header field that was required to
have only a single value.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_INFO_STATUS_NOT_ALLOWED`#

Informational HTTP status codes (`1xx`) may not be set as the response status
code on HTTP/2 responses.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_INVALID_CONNECTION_HEADERS`#

HTTP/1 connection specific headers are forbidden to be used in HTTP/2 requests
and responses.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_INVALID_HEADER_VALUE`#

An invalid HTTP/2 header value was specified.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_INVALID_INFO_STATUS`#

An invalid HTTP informational status code has been specified. Informational
status codes must be an integer between `100` and `199` (inclusive).

#### `ERR_HTTP2_INVALID_ORIGIN`#

HTTP/2 `ORIGIN` frames require a valid origin.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_INVALID_PACKED_SETTINGS_LENGTH`#

Input `Buffer` and `Uint8Array` instances passed to the
`http2.getUnpackedSettings()` API must have a length that is a multiple of
six.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_INVALID_PSEUDOHEADER`#

Only valid HTTP/2 pseudoheaders (`:status`, `:path`, `:authority`, `:scheme`,
and `:method`) may be used.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_INVALID_SESSION`#

An action was performed on an `Http2Session` object that had already been
destroyed.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_INVALID_SETTING_VALUE`#

An invalid value has been specified for an HTTP/2 setting.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_INVALID_STREAM`#

An operation was performed on a stream that had already been destroyed.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_MAX_PENDING_SETTINGS_ACK`#

Whenever an HTTP/2 `SETTINGS` frame is sent to a connected peer, the peer is
required to send an acknowledgment that it has received and applied the new
`SETTINGS`. By default, a maximum number of unacknowledged `SETTINGS` frames
may be sent at any given time. This error code is used when that limit has
been reached.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_NESTED_PUSH`#

An attempt was made to initiate a new push stream from within a push stream.
Nested push streams are not permitted.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_NO_MEM`#

Out of memory when using the `http2session.setLocalWindowSize(windowSize)`
API.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_NO_SOCKET_MANIPULATION`#

An attempt was made to directly manipulate (read, write, pause, resume, etc.)
a socket attached to an `Http2Session`.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_ORIGIN_LENGTH`#

HTTP/2 `ORIGIN` frames are limited to a length of 16382 bytes.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_OUT_OF_STREAMS`#

The number of streams created on a single HTTP/2 session reached the maximum
limit.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_PAYLOAD_FORBIDDEN`#

A message payload was specified for an HTTP response code for which a payload
is forbidden.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_PING_CANCEL`#

An HTTP/2 ping was canceled.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_PING_LENGTH`#

HTTP/2 ping payloads must be exactly 8 bytes in length.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_PSEUDOHEADER_NOT_ALLOWED`#

An HTTP/2 pseudo-header has been used inappropriately. Pseudo-headers are
header key names that begin with the `:` prefix.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_PUSH_DISABLED`#

An attempt was made to create a push stream, which had been disabled by the
client.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_SEND_FILE`#

An attempt was made to use the `Http2Stream.prototype.responseWithFile()` API
to send a directory.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_SEND_FILE_NOSEEK`#

An attempt was made to use the `Http2Stream.prototype.responseWithFile()` API
to send something other than a regular file, but `offset` or `length` options
were provided.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_SESSION_ERROR`#

The `Http2Session` closed with a non-zero error code.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_SETTINGS_CANCEL`#

The `Http2Session` settings canceled.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_SOCKET_BOUND`#

An attempt was made to connect a `Http2Session` object to a `net.Socket` or
`tls.TLSSocket` that had already been bound to another `Http2Session` object.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_SOCKET_UNBOUND`#

An attempt was made to use the `socket` property of an `Http2Session` that has
already been closed.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_STATUS_101`#

Use of the `101` Informational status code is forbidden in HTTP/2.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_STATUS_INVALID`#

An invalid HTTP status code has been specified. Status codes must be an
integer between `100` and `599` (inclusive).

#### `ERR_HTTP2_STREAM_CANCEL`#

An `Http2Stream` was destroyed before any data was transmitted to the
connected peer.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_STREAM_ERROR`#

A non-zero error code was been specified in an `RST_STREAM` frame.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_STREAM_SELF_DEPENDENCY`#

When setting the priority for an HTTP/2 stream, the stream may be marked as a
dependency for a parent stream. This error code is used when an attempt is
made to mark a stream and dependent of itself.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_TOO_MANY_CUSTOM_SETTINGS`#

The number of supported custom settings (10) has been exceeded.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_TOO_MANY_INVALID_FRAMES`#

Added in: v15.14.0

The limit of acceptable invalid HTTP/2 protocol frames sent by the peer, as
specified through the `maxSessionInvalidFrames` option, has been exceeded.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_TRAILERS_ALREADY_SENT`#

Trailing headers have already been sent on the `Http2Stream`.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_TRAILERS_NOT_READY`#

The `http2stream.sendTrailers()` method cannot be called until after the
`'wantTrailers'` event is emitted on an `Http2Stream` object. The
`'wantTrailers'` event will only be emitted if the `waitForTrailers` option is
set for the `Http2Stream`.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_UNSUPPORTED_PROTOCOL`#

`http2.connect()` was passed a URL that uses any protocol other than `http:`
or `https:`.

#### `ERR_HTTP_BODY_NOT_ALLOWED`#

An error is thrown when writing to an HTTP response which does not allow
contents.

#### `ERR_HTTP_CONTENT_LENGTH_MISMATCH`#

Response body size doesn't match with the specified content-length header
value.

#### `ERR_HTTP_HEADERS_SENT`#

An attempt was made to add more headers after the headers had already been
sent.

#### `ERR_HTTP_INVALID_HEADER_VALUE`#

An invalid HTTP header value was specified.

#### `ERR_HTTP_INVALID_STATUS_CODE`#

Status code was outside the regular status code range (100-999).

#### `ERR_HTTP_REQUEST_TIMEOUT`#

The client has not sent the entire request within the allowed time.

#### `ERR_HTTP_SOCKET_ASSIGNED`#

The given `ServerResponse` was already assigned a socket.

#### `ERR_HTTP_SOCKET_ENCODING`#

Changing the socket encoding is not allowed per [RFC 7230 Section
3](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7230#section-3).

#### `ERR_HTTP_TRAILER_INVALID`#

The `Trailer` header was set even though the transfer encoding does not
support that.

#### `ERR_ILLEGAL_CONSTRUCTOR`#

An attempt was made to construct an object using a non-public constructor.

#### `ERR_IMPORT_ATTRIBUTE_MISSING`#

Added in: v21.1.0

An import attribute is missing, preventing the specified module to be
imported.

#### `ERR_IMPORT_ATTRIBUTE_TYPE_INCOMPATIBLE`#

Added in: v21.1.0

An import `type` attribute was provided, but the specified module is of a
different type.

#### `ERR_IMPORT_ATTRIBUTE_UNSUPPORTED`#

Added in: v21.0.0, v20.10.0, v18.19.0

An import attribute is not supported by this version of Node.js.

#### `ERR_INCOMPATIBLE_OPTION_PAIR`#

An option pair is incompatible with each other and cannot be used at the same
time.

#### `ERR_INPUT_TYPE_NOT_ALLOWED`#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

The `--input-type` flag was used to attempt to execute a file. This flag can
only be used with input via `--eval`, `--print`, or `STDIN`.

#### `ERR_INSPECTOR_ALREADY_ACTIVATED`#

While using the `node:inspector` module, an attempt was made to activate the
inspector when it already started to listen on a port. Use `inspector.close()`
before activating it on a different address.

#### `ERR_INSPECTOR_ALREADY_CONNECTED`#

While using the `node:inspector` module, an attempt was made to connect when
the inspector was already connected.

#### `ERR_INSPECTOR_CLOSED`#

While using the `node:inspector` module, an attempt was made to use the
inspector after the session had already closed.

#### `ERR_INSPECTOR_COMMAND`#

An error occurred while issuing a command via the `node:inspector` module.

#### `ERR_INSPECTOR_NOT_ACTIVE`#

The `inspector` is not active when `inspector.waitForDebugger()` is called.

#### `ERR_INSPECTOR_NOT_AVAILABLE`#

The `node:inspector` module is not available for use.

#### `ERR_INSPECTOR_NOT_CONNECTED`#

While using the `node:inspector` module, an attempt was made to use the
inspector before it was connected.

#### `ERR_INSPECTOR_NOT_WORKER`#

An API was called on the main thread that can only be used from the worker
thread.

#### `ERR_INTERNAL_ASSERTION`#

There was a bug in Node.js or incorrect usage of Node.js internals. To fix the
error, open an issue at <https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues>.

#### `ERR_INVALID_ADDRESS`#

The provided address is not understood by the Node.js API.

#### `ERR_INVALID_ADDRESS_FAMILY`#

The provided address family is not understood by the Node.js API.

#### `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE`#

An argument of the wrong type was passed to a Node.js API.

#### `ERR_INVALID_ARG_VALUE`#

An invalid or unsupported value was passed for a given argument.

#### `ERR_INVALID_ASYNC_ID`#

An invalid `asyncId` or `triggerAsyncId` was passed using `AsyncHooks`. An id
less than -1 should never happen.

#### `ERR_INVALID_BUFFER_SIZE`#

A swap was performed on a `Buffer` but its size was not compatible with the
operation.

#### `ERR_INVALID_CHAR`#

Invalid characters were detected in headers.

#### `ERR_INVALID_CURSOR_POS`#

A cursor on a given stream cannot be moved to a specified row without a
specified column.

#### `ERR_INVALID_FD`#

A file descriptor ('fd') was not valid (e.g. it was a negative value).

#### `ERR_INVALID_FD_TYPE`#

A file descriptor ('fd') type was not valid.

#### `ERR_INVALID_FILE_URL_HOST`#

A Node.js API that consumes `file:` URLs (such as certain functions in the
[`fs`](fs.html) module) encountered a file URL with an incompatible host. This
situation can only occur on Unix-like systems where only `localhost` or an
empty host is supported.

#### `ERR_INVALID_FILE_URL_PATH`#

A Node.js API that consumes `file:` URLs (such as certain functions in the
[`fs`](fs.html) module) encountered a file URL with an incompatible path. The
exact semantics for determining whether a path can be used is platform-
dependent.

#### `ERR_INVALID_HANDLE_TYPE`#

An attempt was made to send an unsupported "handle" over an IPC communication
channel to a child process. See `subprocess.send()` and `process.send()` for
more information.

#### `ERR_INVALID_HTTP_TOKEN`#

An invalid HTTP token was supplied.

#### `ERR_INVALID_IP_ADDRESS`#

An IP address is not valid.

#### `ERR_INVALID_MIME_SYNTAX`#

The syntax of a MIME is not valid.

#### `ERR_INVALID_MODULE`#

Added in: v15.0.0, v14.18.0

An attempt was made to load a module that does not exist or was otherwise not
valid.

#### `ERR_INVALID_MODULE_SPECIFIER`#

The imported module string is an invalid URL, package name, or package subpath
specifier.

#### `ERR_INVALID_OBJECT_DEFINE_PROPERTY`#

An error occurred while setting an invalid attribute on the property of an
object.

#### `ERR_INVALID_PACKAGE_CONFIG`#

An invalid `package.json` file failed parsing.

#### `ERR_INVALID_PACKAGE_TARGET`#

The `package.json` `"exports"` field contains an invalid target mapping value
for the attempted module resolution.

#### `ERR_INVALID_PROTOCOL`#

An invalid `options.protocol` was passed to `http.request()`.

#### `ERR_INVALID_REPL_EVAL_CONFIG`#

Both `breakEvalOnSigint` and `eval` options were set in the
[`REPL`](repl.html) config, which is not supported.

#### `ERR_INVALID_REPL_INPUT`#

The input may not be used in the [`REPL`](repl.html). The conditions under
which this error is used are described in the [`REPL`](repl.html)
documentation.

#### `ERR_INVALID_RETURN_PROPERTY`#

Thrown in case a function option does not provide a valid value for one of its
returned object properties on execution.

#### `ERR_INVALID_RETURN_PROPERTY_VALUE`#

Thrown in case a function option does not provide an expected value type for
one of its returned object properties on execution.

#### `ERR_INVALID_RETURN_VALUE`#

Thrown in case a function option does not return an expected value type on
execution, such as when a function is expected to return a promise.

#### `ERR_INVALID_STATE`#

Added in: v15.0.0

Indicates that an operation cannot be completed due to an invalid state. For
instance, an object may have already been destroyed, or may be performing
another operation.

#### `ERR_INVALID_SYNC_FORK_INPUT`#

A `Buffer`, `TypedArray`, `DataView`, or `string` was provided as stdio input
to an asynchronous fork. See the documentation for the
[`child_process`](child_process.html) module for more information.

#### `ERR_INVALID_THIS`#

A Node.js API function was called with an incompatible `this` value.

    
    
    const urlSearchParams = new URLSearchParams('foo=bar&baz=new');
    
    const buf = Buffer.alloc(1);
    urlSearchParams.has.call(buf, 'foo');
    // Throws a TypeError with code 'ERR_INVALID_THIS' copy

#### `ERR_INVALID_TUPLE`#

An element in the `iterable` provided to the WHATWG `URLSearchParams`
constructor did not represent a `[name, value]` tuple – that is, if an element
is not iterable, or does not consist of exactly two elements.

#### `ERR_INVALID_TYPESCRIPT_SYNTAX`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.7.0 | This error is no longer thrown on valid yet unsupported syntax.  
v23.0.0 | Added in: v23.0.0  
  
The provided TypeScript syntax is not valid.

#### `ERR_INVALID_URI`#

An invalid URI was passed.

#### `ERR_INVALID_URL`#

An invalid URL was passed to the WHATWG `URL` constructor or the legacy
`url.parse()` to be parsed. The thrown error object typically has an
additional property `'input'` that contains the URL that failed to parse.

#### `ERR_INVALID_URL_PATTERN`#

An invalid URLPattern was passed to the WHATWG [`URLPattern` constructor][`new
URLPattern(input)`] to be parsed.

#### `ERR_INVALID_URL_SCHEME`#

An attempt was made to use a URL of an incompatible scheme (protocol) for a
specific purpose. It is only used in the WHATWG URL API support in the
[`fs`](fs.html) module (which only accepts URLs with `'file'` scheme), but may
be used in other Node.js APIs as well in the future.

#### `ERR_IPC_CHANNEL_CLOSED`#

An attempt was made to use an IPC communication channel that was already
closed.

#### `ERR_IPC_DISCONNECTED`#

An attempt was made to disconnect an IPC communication channel that was
already disconnected. See the documentation for the
[`child_process`](child_process.html) module for more information.

#### `ERR_IPC_ONE_PIPE`#

An attempt was made to create a child Node.js process using more than one IPC
communication channel. See the documentation for the
[`child_process`](child_process.html) module for more information.

#### `ERR_IPC_SYNC_FORK`#

An attempt was made to open an IPC communication channel with a synchronously
forked Node.js process. See the documentation for the
[`child_process`](child_process.html) module for more information.

#### `ERR_IP_BLOCKED`#

IP is blocked by `net.BlockList`.

#### `ERR_LOADER_CHAIN_INCOMPLETE`#

Added in: v18.6.0, v16.17.0

An ESM loader hook returned without calling `next()` and without explicitly
signaling a short circuit.

#### `ERR_LOAD_SQLITE_EXTENSION`#

Added in: v23.5.0

An error occurred while loading a SQLite extension.

#### `ERR_MEMORY_ALLOCATION_FAILED`#

An attempt was made to allocate memory (usually in the C++ layer) but it
failed.

#### `ERR_MESSAGE_TARGET_CONTEXT_UNAVAILABLE`#

Added in: v14.5.0, v12.19.0

A message posted to a `MessagePort` could not be deserialized in the target
[vm](vm.html) `Context`. Not all Node.js objects can be successfully
instantiated in any context at this time, and attempting to transfer them
using `postMessage()` can fail on the receiving side in that case.

#### `ERR_METHOD_NOT_IMPLEMENTED`#

A method is required but not implemented.

#### `ERR_MISSING_ARGS`#

A required argument of a Node.js API was not passed. This is only used for
strict compliance with the API specification (which in some cases may accept
`func(undefined)` but not `func()`). In most native Node.js APIs,
`func(undefined)` and `func()` are treated identically, and the
`ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` error code may be used instead.

#### `ERR_MISSING_OPTION`#

For APIs that accept options objects, some options might be mandatory. This
code is thrown if a required option is missing.

#### `ERR_MISSING_PASSPHRASE`#

An attempt was made to read an encrypted key without specifying a passphrase.

#### `ERR_MISSING_PLATFORM_FOR_WORKER`#

The V8 platform used by this instance of Node.js does not support creating
Workers. This is caused by lack of embedder support for Workers. In
particular, this error will not occur with standard builds of Node.js.

#### `ERR_MODULE_NOT_FOUND`#

A module file could not be resolved by the ECMAScript modules loader while
attempting an `import` operation or when loading the program entry point.

#### `ERR_MULTIPLE_CALLBACK`#

A callback was called more than once.

A callback is almost always meant to only be called once as the query can
either be fulfilled or rejected but not both at the same time. The latter
would be possible by calling a callback more than once.

#### `ERR_NAPI_CONS_FUNCTION`#

While using `Node-API`, a constructor passed was not a function.

#### `ERR_NAPI_INVALID_DATAVIEW_ARGS`#

While calling `napi_create_dataview()`, a given `offset` was outside the
bounds of the dataview or `offset + length` was larger than a length of given
`buffer`.

#### `ERR_NAPI_INVALID_TYPEDARRAY_ALIGNMENT`#

While calling `napi_create_typedarray()`, the provided `offset` was not a
multiple of the element size.

#### `ERR_NAPI_INVALID_TYPEDARRAY_LENGTH`#

While calling `napi_create_typedarray()`, `(length * size_of_element) +
byte_offset` was larger than the length of given `buffer`.

#### `ERR_NAPI_TSFN_CALL_JS`#

An error occurred while invoking the JavaScript portion of the thread-safe
function.

#### `ERR_NAPI_TSFN_GET_UNDEFINED`#

An error occurred while attempting to retrieve the JavaScript `undefined`
value.

#### `ERR_NON_CONTEXT_AWARE_DISABLED`#

A non-context-aware native addon was loaded in a process that disallows them.

#### `ERR_NOT_BUILDING_SNAPSHOT`#

An attempt was made to use operations that can only be used when building V8
startup snapshot even though Node.js isn't building one.

#### `ERR_NOT_IN_SINGLE_EXECUTABLE_APPLICATION`#

Added in: v21.7.0, v20.12.0

The operation cannot be performed when it's not in a single-executable
application.

#### `ERR_NOT_SUPPORTED_IN_SNAPSHOT`#

An attempt was made to perform operations that are not supported when building
a startup snapshot.

#### `ERR_NO_CRYPTO`#

An attempt was made to use crypto features while Node.js was not compiled with
OpenSSL crypto support.

#### `ERR_NO_ICU`#

An attempt was made to use features that require ICU, but Node.js was not
compiled with ICU support.

#### `ERR_NO_TYPESCRIPT`#

Added in: v23.0.0

An attempt was made to use features that require Native TypeScript support,
but Node.js was not compiled with TypeScript support.

#### `ERR_OPERATION_FAILED`#

Added in: v15.0.0

An operation failed. This is typically used to signal the general failure of
an asynchronous operation.

#### `ERR_OPTIONS_BEFORE_BOOTSTRAPPING`#

Added in: v23.10.0

An attempt was made to get options before the bootstrapping was completed.

#### `ERR_OUT_OF_RANGE`#

A given value is out of the accepted range.

#### `ERR_PACKAGE_IMPORT_NOT_DEFINED`#

The `package.json` `"imports"` field does not define the given internal
package specifier mapping.

#### `ERR_PACKAGE_PATH_NOT_EXPORTED`#

The `package.json` `"exports"` field does not export the requested subpath.
Because exports are encapsulated, private internal modules that are not
exported cannot be imported through the package resolution, unless using an
absolute URL.

#### `ERR_PARSE_ARGS_INVALID_OPTION_VALUE`#

Added in: v18.3.0, v16.17.0

When `strict` set to `true`, thrown by `util.parseArgs()` if a
[<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) value is provided for an
option of type [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type), or if a
[<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) value is provided for an
option of type [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type).

#### `ERR_PARSE_ARGS_UNEXPECTED_POSITIONAL`#

Added in: v18.3.0, v16.17.0

Thrown by `util.parseArgs()`, when a positional argument is provided and
`allowPositionals` is set to `false`.

#### `ERR_PARSE_ARGS_UNKNOWN_OPTION`#

Added in: v18.3.0, v16.17.0

When `strict` set to `true`, thrown by `util.parseArgs()` if an argument is
not configured in `options`.

#### `ERR_PERFORMANCE_INVALID_TIMESTAMP`#

An invalid timestamp value was provided for a performance mark or measure.

#### `ERR_PERFORMANCE_MEASURE_INVALID_OPTIONS`#

Invalid options were provided for a performance measure.

#### `ERR_PROTO_ACCESS`#

Accessing `Object.prototype.__proto__` has been forbidden using `--disable-
proto=throw`. [`Object.getPrototypeOf`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/getPrototypeOf) and
[`Object.setPrototypeOf`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/setPrototypeOf) should
be used to get and set the prototype of an object.

#### `ERR_QUIC_APPLICATION_ERROR`#

Added in: v23.4.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

A QUIC application error occurred.

#### `ERR_QUIC_CONNECTION_FAILED`#

Added in: v23.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Establishing a QUIC connection failed.

#### `ERR_QUIC_ENDPOINT_CLOSED`#

Added in: v23.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

A QUIC Endpoint closed with an error.

#### `ERR_QUIC_OPEN_STREAM_FAILED`#

Added in: v23.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Opening a QUIC stream failed.

#### `ERR_QUIC_TRANSPORT_ERROR`#

Added in: v23.4.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

A QUIC transport error occurred.

#### `ERR_QUIC_VERSION_NEGOTIATION_ERROR`#

Added in: v23.4.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

A QUIC session failed because version negotiation is required.

#### `ERR_REQUIRE_ASYNC_MODULE`#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

When trying to `require()` a [ES Module](esm.html), the module turns out to be
asynchronous. That is, it contains top-level await.

To see where the top-level await is, use `--experimental-print-required-tla`
(this would execute the modules before looking for the top-level awaits).

#### `ERR_REQUIRE_CYCLE_MODULE`#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

When trying to `require()` a [ES Module](esm.html), a CommonJS to ESM or ESM
to CommonJS edge participates in an immediate cycle. This is not allowed
because ES Modules cannot be evaluated while they are already being evaluated.

To avoid the cycle, the `require()` call involved in a cycle should not happen
at the top-level of either an ES Module (via `createRequire()`) or a CommonJS
module, and should be done lazily in an inner function.

#### `ERR_REQUIRE_ESM`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | require() now supports loading synchronous ES modules by default.  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated

An attempt was made to `require()` an [ES Module](esm.html).

This error has been deprecated since `require()` now supports loading
synchronous ES modules. When `require()` encounters an ES module that contains
top-level `await`, it will throw `ERR_REQUIRE_ASYNC_MODULE` instead.

#### `ERR_SCRIPT_EXECUTION_INTERRUPTED`#

Script execution was interrupted by `SIGINT` (For example, `Ctrl`+`C` was
pressed.)

#### `ERR_SCRIPT_EXECUTION_TIMEOUT`#

Script execution timed out, possibly due to bugs in the script being executed.

#### `ERR_SERVER_ALREADY_LISTEN`#

The `server.listen()` method was called while a `net.Server` was already
listening. This applies to all instances of `net.Server`, including HTTP,
HTTPS, and HTTP/2 `Server` instances.

#### `ERR_SERVER_NOT_RUNNING`#

The `server.close()` method was called when a `net.Server` was not running.
This applies to all instances of `net.Server`, including HTTP, HTTPS, and
HTTP/2 `Server` instances.

#### `ERR_SINGLE_EXECUTABLE_APPLICATION_ASSET_NOT_FOUND`#

Added in: v21.7.0, v20.12.0

A key was passed to single executable application APIs to identify an asset,
but no match could be found.

#### `ERR_SOCKET_ALREADY_BOUND`#

An attempt was made to bind a socket that has already been bound.

#### `ERR_SOCKET_BAD_BUFFER_SIZE`#

An invalid (negative) size was passed for either the `recvBufferSize` or
`sendBufferSize` options in `dgram.createSocket()`.

#### `ERR_SOCKET_BAD_PORT`#

An API function expecting a port >= 0 and < 65536 received an invalid value.

#### `ERR_SOCKET_BAD_TYPE`#

An API function expecting a socket type (`udp4` or `udp6`) received an invalid
value.

#### `ERR_SOCKET_BUFFER_SIZE`#

While using `dgram.createSocket()`, the size of the receive or send `Buffer`
could not be determined.

#### `ERR_SOCKET_CLOSED`#

An attempt was made to operate on an already closed socket.

#### `ERR_SOCKET_CLOSED_BEFORE_CONNECTION`#

When calling `net.Socket.write()` on a connecting socket and the socket was
closed before the connection was established.

#### `ERR_SOCKET_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT`#

The socket was unable to connect to any address returned by the DNS within the
allowed timeout when using the family autoselection algorithm.

#### `ERR_SOCKET_DGRAM_IS_CONNECTED`#

A `dgram.connect()` call was made on an already connected socket.

#### `ERR_SOCKET_DGRAM_NOT_CONNECTED`#

A `dgram.disconnect()` or `dgram.remoteAddress()` call was made on a
disconnected socket.

#### `ERR_SOCKET_DGRAM_NOT_RUNNING`#

A call was made and the UDP subsystem was not running.

#### `ERR_SOURCE_MAP_CORRUPT`#

The source map could not be parsed because it does not exist, or is corrupt.

#### `ERR_SOURCE_MAP_MISSING_SOURCE`#

A file imported from a source map was not found.

#### `ERR_SQLITE_ERROR`#

Added in: v22.5.0

An error was returned from [SQLite](sqlite.html).

#### `ERR_SRI_PARSE`#

A string was provided for a Subresource Integrity check, but was unable to be
parsed. Check the format of integrity attributes by looking at the
[Subresource Integrity specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/SRI/#the-
integrity-attribute).

#### `ERR_STREAM_ALREADY_FINISHED`#

A stream method was called that cannot complete because the stream was
finished.

#### `ERR_STREAM_CANNOT_PIPE`#

An attempt was made to call `stream.pipe()` on a `Writable` stream.

#### `ERR_STREAM_DESTROYED`#

A stream method was called that cannot complete because the stream was
destroyed using `stream.destroy()`.

#### `ERR_STREAM_NULL_VALUES`#

An attempt was made to call `stream.write()` with a `null` chunk.

#### `ERR_STREAM_PREMATURE_CLOSE`#

An error returned by `stream.finished()` and `stream.pipeline()`, when a
stream or a pipeline ends non gracefully with no explicit error.

#### `ERR_STREAM_PUSH_AFTER_EOF`#

An attempt was made to call `stream.push()` after a `null`(EOF) had been
pushed to the stream.

#### `ERR_STREAM_UNABLE_TO_PIPE`#

An attempt was made to pipe to a closed or destroyed stream in a pipeline.

#### `ERR_STREAM_UNSHIFT_AFTER_END_EVENT`#

An attempt was made to call `stream.unshift()` after the `'end'` event was
emitted.

#### `ERR_STREAM_WRAP`#

Prevents an abort if a string decoder was set on the Socket or if the decoder
is in `objectMode`.

    
    
    const Socket = require('node:net').Socket;
    const instance = new Socket();
    
    instance.setEncoding('utf8'); copy

#### `ERR_STREAM_WRITE_AFTER_END`#

An attempt was made to call `stream.write()` after `stream.end()` has been
called.

#### `ERR_STRING_TOO_LONG`#

An attempt has been made to create a string longer than the maximum allowed
length.

#### `ERR_SYNTHETIC`#

An artificial error object used to capture the call stack for diagnostic
reports.

#### `ERR_SYSTEM_ERROR`#

An unspecified or non-specific system error has occurred within the Node.js
process. The error object will have an `err.info` object property with
additional details.

#### `ERR_TEST_FAILURE`#

This error represents a failed test. Additional information about the failure
is available via the `cause` property. The `failureType` property specifies
what the test was doing when the failure occurred.

#### `ERR_TLS_ALPN_CALLBACK_INVALID_RESULT`#

This error is thrown when an `ALPNCallback` returns a value that is not in the
list of ALPN protocols offered by the client.

#### `ERR_TLS_ALPN_CALLBACK_WITH_PROTOCOLS`#

This error is thrown when creating a `TLSServer` if the TLS options include
both `ALPNProtocols` and `ALPNCallback`. These options are mutually exclusive.

#### `ERR_TLS_CERT_ALTNAME_FORMAT`#

This error is thrown by `checkServerIdentity` if a user-supplied
`subjectaltname` property violates encoding rules. Certificate objects
produced by Node.js itself always comply with encoding rules and will never
cause this error.

#### `ERR_TLS_CERT_ALTNAME_INVALID`#

While using TLS, the host name/IP of the peer did not match any of the
`subjectAltNames` in its certificate.

#### `ERR_TLS_DH_PARAM_SIZE`#

While using TLS, the parameter offered for the Diffie-Hellman (`DH`) key-
agreement protocol is too small. By default, the key length must be greater
than or equal to 1024 bits to avoid vulnerabilities, even though it is
strongly recommended to use 2048 bits or larger for stronger security.

#### `ERR_TLS_HANDSHAKE_TIMEOUT`#

A TLS/SSL handshake timed out. In this case, the server must also abort the
connection.

#### `ERR_TLS_INVALID_CONTEXT`#

Added in: v13.3.0

The context must be a `SecureContext`.

#### `ERR_TLS_INVALID_PROTOCOL_METHOD`#

The specified `secureProtocol` method is invalid. It is either unknown, or
disabled because it is insecure.

#### `ERR_TLS_INVALID_PROTOCOL_VERSION`#

Valid TLS protocol versions are `'TLSv1'`, `'TLSv1.1'`, or `'TLSv1.2'`.

#### `ERR_TLS_INVALID_STATE`#

Added in: v13.10.0, v12.17.0

The TLS socket must be connected and securely established. Ensure the 'secure'
event is emitted before continuing.

#### `ERR_TLS_PROTOCOL_VERSION_CONFLICT`#

Attempting to set a TLS protocol `minVersion` or `maxVersion` conflicts with
an attempt to set the `secureProtocol` explicitly. Use one mechanism or the
other.

#### `ERR_TLS_PSK_SET_IDENTITY_HINT_FAILED`#

Failed to set PSK identity hint. Hint may be too long.

#### `ERR_TLS_RENEGOTIATION_DISABLED`#

An attempt was made to renegotiate TLS on a socket instance with renegotiation
disabled.

#### `ERR_TLS_REQUIRED_SERVER_NAME`#

While using TLS, the `server.addContext()` method was called without providing
a host name in the first parameter.

#### `ERR_TLS_SESSION_ATTACK`#

An excessive amount of TLS renegotiations is detected, which is a potential
vector for denial-of-service attacks.

#### `ERR_TLS_SNI_FROM_SERVER`#

An attempt was made to issue Server Name Indication from a TLS server-side
socket, which is only valid from a client.

#### `ERR_TRACE_EVENTS_CATEGORY_REQUIRED`#

The `trace_events.createTracing()` method requires at least one trace event
category.

#### `ERR_TRACE_EVENTS_UNAVAILABLE`#

The `node:trace_events` module could not be loaded because Node.js was
compiled with the `--without-v8-platform` flag.

#### `ERR_TRANSFORM_ALREADY_TRANSFORMING`#

A `Transform` stream finished while it was still transforming.

#### `ERR_TRANSFORM_WITH_LENGTH_0`#

A `Transform` stream finished with data still in the write buffer.

#### `ERR_TTY_INIT_FAILED`#

The initialization of a TTY failed due to a system error.

#### `ERR_UNAVAILABLE_DURING_EXIT`#

Function was called within a `process.on('exit')` handler that shouldn't be
called within `process.on('exit')` handler.

#### `ERR_UNCAUGHT_EXCEPTION_CAPTURE_ALREADY_SET`#

`process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback()` was called twice, without
first resetting the callback to `null`.

This error is designed to prevent accidentally overwriting a callback
registered from another module.

#### `ERR_UNESCAPED_CHARACTERS`#

A string that contained unescaped characters was received.

#### `ERR_UNHANDLED_ERROR`#

An unhandled error occurred (for instance, when an `'error'` event is emitted
by an `EventEmitter` but an `'error'` handler is not registered).

#### `ERR_UNKNOWN_BUILTIN_MODULE`#

Used to identify a specific kind of internal Node.js error that should not
typically be triggered by user code. Instances of this error point to an
internal bug within the Node.js binary itself.

#### `ERR_UNKNOWN_CREDENTIAL`#

A Unix group or user identifier that does not exist was passed.

#### `ERR_UNKNOWN_ENCODING`#

An invalid or unknown encoding option was passed to an API.

#### `ERR_UNKNOWN_FILE_EXTENSION`#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

An attempt was made to load a module with an unknown or unsupported file
extension.

#### `ERR_UNKNOWN_MODULE_FORMAT`#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

An attempt was made to load a module with an unknown or unsupported format.

#### `ERR_UNKNOWN_SIGNAL`#

An invalid or unknown process signal was passed to an API expecting a valid
signal (such as `subprocess.kill()`).

#### `ERR_UNSUPPORTED_DIR_IMPORT`#

`import` a directory URL is unsupported. Instead, self-reference a package
using its name and define a custom subpath in the `"exports"` field of the
`package.json` file.

    
    
    import './'; // unsupported
    import './index.js'; // supported
    import 'package-name'; // supported copy

#### `ERR_UNSUPPORTED_ESM_URL_SCHEME`#

`import` with URL schemes other than `file` and `data` is unsupported.

#### `ERR_UNSUPPORTED_NODE_MODULES_TYPE_STRIPPING`#

Added in: v22.6.0

Type stripping is not supported for files descendent of a `node_modules`
directory.

#### `ERR_UNSUPPORTED_RESOLVE_REQUEST`#

An attempt was made to resolve an invalid module referrer. This can happen
when importing or calling `import.meta.resolve()` with either:

  * a bare specifier that is not a builtin module from a module whose URL scheme is not `file`.
  * a [relative URL](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#relative-url-string) from a module whose URL scheme is not a [special scheme](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#special-scheme).

    
    
    try {
      // Trying to import the package 'bare-specifier' from a `data:` URL module:
      await import('data:text/javascript,import "bare-specifier"');
    } catch (e) {
      console.log(e.code); // ERR_UNSUPPORTED_RESOLVE_REQUEST
    } copy

#### `ERR_UNSUPPORTED_TYPESCRIPT_SYNTAX`#

Added in: v23.7.0

The provided TypeScript syntax is unsupported. This could happen when using
TypeScript syntax that requires transformation with type-stripping.

#### `ERR_USE_AFTER_CLOSE`#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

An attempt was made to use something that was already closed.

#### `ERR_VALID_PERFORMANCE_ENTRY_TYPE`#

While using the Performance Timing API (`perf_hooks`), no valid performance
entry types are found.

#### `ERR_VM_DYNAMIC_IMPORT_CALLBACK_MISSING`#

A dynamic import callback was not specified.

#### `ERR_VM_DYNAMIC_IMPORT_CALLBACK_MISSING_FLAG`#

A dynamic import callback was invoked without `--experimental-vm-modules`.

#### `ERR_VM_MODULE_ALREADY_LINKED`#

The module attempted to be linked is not eligible for linking, because of one
of the following reasons:

  * It has already been linked (`linkingStatus` is `'linked'`)
  * It is being linked (`linkingStatus` is `'linking'`)
  * Linking has failed for this module (`linkingStatus` is `'errored'`)

#### `ERR_VM_MODULE_CACHED_DATA_REJECTED`#

The `cachedData` option passed to a module constructor is invalid.

#### `ERR_VM_MODULE_CANNOT_CREATE_CACHED_DATA`#

Cached data cannot be created for modules which have already been evaluated.

#### `ERR_VM_MODULE_DIFFERENT_CONTEXT`#

The module being returned from the linker function is from a different context
than the parent module. Linked modules must share the same context.

#### `ERR_VM_MODULE_LINK_FAILURE`#

The module was unable to be linked due to a failure.

#### `ERR_VM_MODULE_NOT_MODULE`#

The fulfilled value of a linking promise is not a `vm.Module` object.

#### `ERR_VM_MODULE_STATUS`#

The current module's status does not allow for this operation. The specific
meaning of the error depends on the specific function.

#### `ERR_WASI_ALREADY_STARTED`#

The WASI instance has already started.

#### `ERR_WASI_NOT_STARTED`#

The WASI instance has not been started.

#### `ERR_WEBASSEMBLY_RESPONSE`#

Added in: v18.1.0

The `Response` that has been passed to `WebAssembly.compileStreaming` or to
`WebAssembly.instantiateStreaming` is not a valid WebAssembly response.

#### `ERR_WORKER_INIT_FAILED`#

The `Worker` initialization failed.

#### `ERR_WORKER_INVALID_EXEC_ARGV`#

The `execArgv` option passed to the `Worker` constructor contains invalid
flags.

#### `ERR_WORKER_MESSAGING_ERRORED`#

Added in: v22.5.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

The destination thread threw an error while processing a message sent via
`postMessageToThread()`.

#### `ERR_WORKER_MESSAGING_FAILED`#

Added in: v22.5.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

The thread requested in `postMessageToThread()` is invalid or has no
`workerMessage` listener.

#### `ERR_WORKER_MESSAGING_SAME_THREAD`#

Added in: v22.5.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

The thread id requested in `postMessageToThread()` is the current thread id.

#### `ERR_WORKER_MESSAGING_TIMEOUT`#

Added in: v22.5.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

Sending a message via `postMessageToThread()` timed out.

#### `ERR_WORKER_NOT_RUNNING`#

An operation failed because the `Worker` instance is not currently running.

#### `ERR_WORKER_OUT_OF_MEMORY`#

The `Worker` instance terminated because it reached its memory limit.

#### `ERR_WORKER_PATH`#

The path for the main script of a worker is neither an absolute path nor a
relative path starting with `./` or `../`.

#### `ERR_WORKER_UNSERIALIZABLE_ERROR`#

All attempts at serializing an uncaught exception from a worker thread failed.

#### `ERR_WORKER_UNSUPPORTED_OPERATION`#

The requested functionality is not supported in worker threads.

#### `ERR_ZLIB_INITIALIZATION_FAILED`#

Creation of a [`zlib`](zlib.html) object failed due to incorrect
configuration.

#### `ERR_ZSTD_INVALID_PARAM`#

An invalid parameter key was passed during construction of a Zstd stream.

#### `HPE_CHUNK_EXTENSIONS_OVERFLOW`#

Added in: v21.6.2, v20.11.1, v18.19.1

Too much data was received for a chunk extensions. In order to protect against
malicious or malconfigured clients, if more than 16 KiB of data is received
then an `Error` with this code will be emitted.

#### `HPE_HEADER_OVERFLOW`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.4.0, v10.15.0 | Max header size in `http_parser` was set to 8 KiB.  
  
Too much HTTP header data was received. In order to protect against malicious
or malconfigured clients, if more than `maxHeaderSize` of HTTP header data is
received then HTTP parsing will abort without a request or response object
being created, and an `Error` with this code will be emitted.

#### `HPE_UNEXPECTED_CONTENT_LENGTH`#

Server is sending both a `Content-Length` header and `Transfer-Encoding:
chunked`.

`Transfer-Encoding: chunked` allows the server to maintain an HTTP persistent
connection for dynamically generated content. In this case, the `Content-
Length` HTTP header cannot be used.

Use `Content-Length` or `Transfer-Encoding: chunked`.

#### `MODULE_NOT_FOUND`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | Added `requireStack` property.  
  
A module file could not be resolved by the CommonJS modules loader while
attempting a `require()` operation or when loading the program entry point.

### Legacy Node.js error codes#

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. These error codes are either inconsistent, or have
been removed.

#### `ERR_CANNOT_TRANSFER_OBJECT`#

Added in: v10.5.0Removed in: v12.5.0

The value passed to `postMessage()` contained an object that is not supported
for transferring.

#### `ERR_CPU_USAGE`#

Removed in: v15.0.0

The native call from `process.cpuUsage` could not be processed.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_HASH_DIGEST_NO_UTF16`#

Added in: v9.0.0Removed in: v12.12.0

The UTF-16 encoding was used with `hash.digest()`. While the `hash.digest()`
method does allow an `encoding` argument to be passed in, causing the method
to return a string rather than a `Buffer`, the UTF-16 encoding (e.g. `ucs` or
`utf16le`) is not supported.

#### `ERR_CRYPTO_SCRYPT_INVALID_PARAMETER`#

Removed in: v23.0.0

An incompatible combination of options was passed to `crypto.scrypt()` or
`crypto.scryptSync()`. New versions of Node.js use the error code
`ERR_INCOMPATIBLE_OPTION_PAIR` instead, which is consistent with other APIs.

#### `ERR_FS_INVALID_SYMLINK_TYPE`#

Removed in: v23.0.0

An invalid symlink type was passed to the `fs.symlink()` or `fs.symlinkSync()`
methods.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_FRAME_ERROR`#

Added in: v9.0.0Removed in: v10.0.0

Used when a failure occurs sending an individual frame on the HTTP/2 session.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_HEADERS_OBJECT`#

Added in: v9.0.0Removed in: v10.0.0

Used when an HTTP/2 Headers Object is expected.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_HEADER_REQUIRED`#

Added in: v9.0.0Removed in: v10.0.0

Used when a required header is missing in an HTTP/2 message.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_INFO_HEADERS_AFTER_RESPOND`#

Added in: v9.0.0Removed in: v10.0.0

HTTP/2 informational headers must only be sent _prior_ to calling the
`Http2Stream.prototype.respond()` method.

#### `ERR_HTTP2_STREAM_CLOSED`#

Added in: v9.0.0Removed in: v10.0.0

Used when an action has been performed on an HTTP/2 Stream that has already
been closed.

#### `ERR_HTTP_INVALID_CHAR`#

Added in: v9.0.0Removed in: v10.0.0

Used when an invalid character is found in an HTTP response status message
(reason phrase).

#### `ERR_IMPORT_ASSERTION_TYPE_FAILED`#

Added in: v17.1.0, v16.14.0Removed in: v21.1.0

An import assertion has failed, preventing the specified module to be
imported.

#### `ERR_IMPORT_ASSERTION_TYPE_MISSING`#

Added in: v17.1.0, v16.14.0Removed in: v21.1.0

An import assertion is missing, preventing the specified module to be
imported.

#### `ERR_IMPORT_ASSERTION_TYPE_UNSUPPORTED`#

Added in: v17.1.0, v16.14.0Removed in: v21.1.0

An import attribute is not supported by this version of Node.js.

#### `ERR_INDEX_OUT_OF_RANGE`#

Added in: v10.0.0Removed in: v11.0.0

A given index was out of the accepted range (e.g. negative offsets).

#### `ERR_INVALID_OPT_VALUE`#

Added in: v8.0.0Removed in: v15.0.0

An invalid or unexpected value was passed in an options object.

#### `ERR_INVALID_OPT_VALUE_ENCODING`#

Added in: v9.0.0Removed in: v15.0.0

An invalid or unknown file encoding was passed.

#### `ERR_INVALID_PERFORMANCE_MARK`#

Added in: v8.5.0Removed in: v16.7.0

While using the Performance Timing API (`perf_hooks`), a performance mark is
invalid.

#### `ERR_INVALID_TRANSFER_OBJECT`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0 | A `DOMException` is thrown instead.  
v21.0.0 | Removed in: v21.0.0  
  
An invalid transfer object was passed to `postMessage()`.

#### `ERR_MANIFEST_ASSERT_INTEGRITY`#

Removed in: v22.2.0

An attempt was made to load a resource, but the resource did not match the
integrity defined by the policy manifest. See the documentation for policy
manifests for more information.

#### `ERR_MANIFEST_DEPENDENCY_MISSING`#

Removed in: v22.2.0

An attempt was made to load a resource, but the resource was not listed as a
dependency from the location that attempted to load it. See the documentation
for policy manifests for more information.

#### `ERR_MANIFEST_INTEGRITY_MISMATCH`#

Removed in: v22.2.0

An attempt was made to load a policy manifest, but the manifest had multiple
entries for a resource which did not match each other. Update the manifest
entries to match in order to resolve this error. See the documentation for
policy manifests for more information.

#### `ERR_MANIFEST_INVALID_RESOURCE_FIELD`#

Removed in: v22.2.0

A policy manifest resource had an invalid value for one of its fields. Update
the manifest entry to match in order to resolve this error. See the
documentation for policy manifests for more information.

#### `ERR_MANIFEST_INVALID_SPECIFIER`#

Removed in: v22.2.0

A policy manifest resource had an invalid value for one of its dependency
mappings. Update the manifest entry to match to resolve this error. See the
documentation for policy manifests for more information.

#### `ERR_MANIFEST_PARSE_POLICY`#

Removed in: v22.2.0

An attempt was made to load a policy manifest, but the manifest was unable to
be parsed. See the documentation for policy manifests for more information.

#### `ERR_MANIFEST_TDZ`#

Removed in: v22.2.0

An attempt was made to read from a policy manifest, but the manifest
initialization has not yet taken place. This is likely a bug in Node.js.

#### `ERR_MANIFEST_UNKNOWN_ONERROR`#

Removed in: v22.2.0

A policy manifest was loaded, but had an unknown value for its "onerror"
behavior. See the documentation for policy manifests for more information.

#### `ERR_MISSING_MESSAGE_PORT_IN_TRANSFER_LIST`#

Removed in: v15.0.0

This error code was replaced by `ERR_MISSING_TRANSFERABLE_IN_TRANSFER_LIST` in
Node.js v15.0.0, because it is no longer accurate as other types of
transferable objects also exist now.

#### `ERR_MISSING_TRANSFERABLE_IN_TRANSFER_LIST`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0 | A `DOMException` is thrown instead.  
v21.0.0 | Removed in: v21.0.0  
v15.0.0 | Added in: v15.0.0  
  
An object that needs to be explicitly listed in the `transferList` argument is
in the object passed to a `postMessage()` call, but is not provided in the
`transferList` for that call. Usually, this is a `MessagePort`.

In Node.js versions prior to v15.0.0, the error code being used here was
`ERR_MISSING_MESSAGE_PORT_IN_TRANSFER_LIST`. However, the set of transferable
object types has been expanded to cover more types than `MessagePort`.

#### `ERR_NAPI_CONS_PROTOTYPE_OBJECT`#

Added in: v9.0.0Removed in: v10.0.0

Used by the `Node-API` when `Constructor.prototype` is not an object.

#### `ERR_NAPI_TSFN_START_IDLE_LOOP`#

Added in: v10.6.0, v8.16.0Removed in: v14.2.0, v12.17.0

On the main thread, values are removed from the queue associated with the
thread-safe function in an idle loop. This error indicates that an error has
occurred when attempting to start the loop.

#### `ERR_NAPI_TSFN_STOP_IDLE_LOOP`#

Added in: v10.6.0, v8.16.0Removed in: v14.2.0, v12.17.0

Once no more items are left in the queue, the idle loop must be suspended.
This error indicates that the idle loop has failed to stop.

#### `ERR_NO_LONGER_SUPPORTED`#

A Node.js API was called in an unsupported manner, such as
`Buffer.write(string, encoding, offset[, length])`.

#### `ERR_OUTOFMEMORY`#

Added in: v9.0.0Removed in: v10.0.0

Used generically to identify that an operation caused an out of memory
condition.

#### `ERR_PARSE_HISTORY_DATA`#

Added in: v9.0.0Removed in: v10.0.0

The `node:repl` module was unable to parse data from the REPL history file.

#### `ERR_SOCKET_CANNOT_SEND`#

Added in: v9.0.0Removed in: v14.0.0

Data could not be sent on a socket.

#### `ERR_STDERR_CLOSE`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.12.0 | Rather than emitting an error, `process.stderr.end()` now only closes the stream side but not the underlying resource, making this error obsolete.  
v10.12.0 | Removed in: v10.12.0  
  
An attempt was made to close the `process.stderr` stream. By design, Node.js
does not allow `stdout` or `stderr` streams to be closed by user code.

#### `ERR_STDOUT_CLOSE`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.12.0 | Rather than emitting an error, `process.stderr.end()` now only closes the stream side but not the underlying resource, making this error obsolete.  
v10.12.0 | Removed in: v10.12.0  
  
An attempt was made to close the `process.stdout` stream. By design, Node.js
does not allow `stdout` or `stderr` streams to be closed by user code.

#### `ERR_STREAM_READ_NOT_IMPLEMENTED`#

Added in: v9.0.0Removed in: v10.0.0

Used when an attempt is made to use a readable stream that has not implemented
`readable._read()`.

#### `ERR_TAP_LEXER_ERROR`#

An error representing a failing lexer state.

#### `ERR_TAP_PARSER_ERROR`#

An error representing a failing parser state. Additional information about the
token causing the error is available via the `cause` property.

#### `ERR_TAP_VALIDATION_ERROR`#

This error represents a failed TAP validation.

#### `ERR_TLS_RENEGOTIATION_FAILED`#

Added in: v9.0.0Removed in: v10.0.0

Used when a TLS renegotiation request has failed in a non-specific way.

#### `ERR_TRANSFERRING_EXTERNALIZED_SHAREDARRAYBUFFER`#

Added in: v10.5.0Removed in: v14.0.0

A `SharedArrayBuffer` whose memory is not managed by the JavaScript engine or
by Node.js was encountered during serialization. Such a `SharedArrayBuffer`
cannot be serialized.

This can only happen when native addons create `SharedArrayBuffer`s in
"externalized" mode, or put existing `SharedArrayBuffer` into externalized
mode.

#### `ERR_UNKNOWN_STDIN_TYPE`#

Added in: v8.0.0Removed in: v11.7.0

An attempt was made to launch a Node.js process with an unknown `stdin` file
type. This error is usually an indication of a bug within Node.js itself,
although it is possible for user code to trigger it.

#### `ERR_UNKNOWN_STREAM_TYPE`#

Added in: v8.0.0Removed in: v11.7.0

An attempt was made to launch a Node.js process with an unknown `stdout` or
`stderr` file type. This error is usually an indication of a bug within
Node.js itself, although it is possible for user code to trigger it.

#### `ERR_V8BREAKITERATOR`#

The V8 `BreakIterator` API was used but the full ICU data set is not
installed.

#### `ERR_VALUE_OUT_OF_RANGE`#

Added in: v9.0.0Removed in: v10.0.0

Used when a given value is out of the accepted range.

#### `ERR_VM_MODULE_LINKING_ERRORED`#

Added in: v10.0.0Removed in: v18.1.0, v16.17.0

The linker function returned a module for which linking has failed.

#### `ERR_VM_MODULE_NOT_LINKED`#

The module must be successfully linked before instantiation.

#### `ERR_WORKER_UNSUPPORTED_EXTENSION`#

Added in: v11.0.0Removed in: v16.9.0

The pathname used for the main script of a worker has an unknown file
extension.

#### `ERR_ZLIB_BINDING_CLOSED`#

Added in: v9.0.0Removed in: v10.0.0

Used when an attempt is made to use a `zlib` object after it has already been
closed.

### OpenSSL Error Codes#

#### Time Validity Errors#

##### `CERT_NOT_YET_VALID`#

The certificate is not yet valid: the notBefore date is after the current
time.

##### `CERT_HAS_EXPIRED`#

The certificate has expired: the notAfter date is before the current time.

##### `CRL_NOT_YET_VALID`#

The certificate revocation list (CRL) has a future issue date.

##### `CRL_HAS_EXPIRED`#

The certificate revocation list (CRL) has expired.

##### `CERT_REVOKED`#

The certificate has been revoked; it is on a certificate revocation list
(CRL).

#### Trust or Chain Related Errors#

##### `UNABLE_TO_GET_ISSUER_CERT`#

The issuer certificate of a looked up certificate could not be found. This
normally means the list of trusted certificates is not complete.

##### `UNABLE_TO_GET_ISSUER_CERT_LOCALLY`#

The certificate’s issuer is not known. This is the case if the issuer is not
included in the trusted certificate list.

##### `DEPTH_ZERO_SELF_SIGNED_CERT`#

The passed certificate is self-signed and the same certificate cannot be found
in the list of trusted certificates.

##### `SELF_SIGNED_CERT_IN_CHAIN`#

The certificate’s issuer is not known. This is the case if the issuer is not
included in the trusted certificate list.

##### `CERT_CHAIN_TOO_LONG`#

The certificate chain length is greater than the maximum depth.

##### `UNABLE_TO_GET_CRL`#

The CRL reference by the certificate could not be found.

##### `UNABLE_TO_VERIFY_LEAF_SIGNATURE`#

No signatures could be verified because the chain contains only one
certificate and it is not self signed.

##### `CERT_UNTRUSTED`#

The root certificate authority (CA) is not marked as trusted for the specified
purpose.

#### Basic Extension Errors#

##### `INVALID_CA`#

A CA certificate is invalid. Either it is not a CA or its extensions are not
consistent with the supplied purpose.

##### `PATH_LENGTH_EXCEEDED`#

The basicConstraints pathlength parameter has been exceeded.

#### Name Related Errors#

##### `HOSTNAME_MISMATCH`#

Certificate does not match provided name.

#### Usage and Policy Errors#

##### `INVALID_PURPOSE`#

The supplied certificate cannot be used for the specified purpose.

##### `CERT_REJECTED`#

The root CA is marked to reject the specified purpose.

#### Formatting Errors#

##### `CERT_SIGNATURE_FAILURE`#

The signature of the certificate is invalid.

##### `CRL_SIGNATURE_FAILURE`#

The signature of the certificate revocation list (CRL) is invalid.

##### `ERROR_IN_CERT_NOT_BEFORE_FIELD`#

The certificate notBefore field contains an invalid time.

##### `ERROR_IN_CERT_NOT_AFTER_FIELD`#

The certificate notAfter field contains an invalid time.

##### `ERROR_IN_CRL_LAST_UPDATE_FIELD`#

The CRL lastUpdate field contains an invalid time.

##### `ERROR_IN_CRL_NEXT_UPDATE_FIELD`#

The CRL nextUpdate field contains an invalid time.

##### `UNABLE_TO_DECRYPT_CERT_SIGNATURE`#

The certificate signature could not be decrypted. This means that the actual
signature value could not be determined rather than it not matching the
expected value, this is only meaningful for RSA keys.

##### `UNABLE_TO_DECRYPT_CRL_SIGNATURE`#

The certificate revocation list (CRL) signature could not be decrypted: this
means that the actual signature value could not be determined rather than it
not matching the expected value.

##### `UNABLE_TO_DECODE_ISSUER_PUBLIC_KEY`#

The public key in the certificate SubjectPublicKeyInfo could not be read.

#### Other OpenSSL Errors#

##### `OUT_OF_MEM`#

An error occurred trying to allocate memory. This should never happen.

## Events#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/events.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/events.js)

Much of the Node.js core API is built around an idiomatic asynchronous event-
driven architecture in which certain kinds of objects (called "emitters") emit
named events that cause `Function` objects ("listeners") to be called.

For instance: a `net.Server` object emits an event each time a peer connects
to it; a `fs.ReadStream` emits an event when the file is opened; a
[stream](stream.html) emits an event whenever data is available to be read.

All objects that emit events are instances of the `EventEmitter` class. These
objects expose an `eventEmitter.on()` function that allows one or more
functions to be attached to named events emitted by the object. Typically,
event names are camel-cased strings but any valid JavaScript property key can
be used.

When the `EventEmitter` object emits an event, all of the functions attached
to that specific event are called _synchronously_. Any values returned by the
called listeners are _ignored_ and discarded.

The following example shows a simple `EventEmitter` instance with a single
listener. The `eventEmitter.on()` method is used to register listeners, while
the `eventEmitter.emit()` method is used to trigger the event.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    myEmitter.on('event', () => {
      console.log('an event occurred!');
    });
    myEmitter.emit('event');const EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    myEmitter.on('event', () => {
      console.log('an event occurred!');
    });
    myEmitter.emit('event');copy

### Passing arguments and `this` to listeners#

The `eventEmitter.emit()` method allows an arbitrary set of arguments to be
passed to the listener functions. Keep in mind that when an ordinary listener
function is called, the standard `this` keyword is intentionally set to
reference the `EventEmitter` instance to which the listener is attached.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    myEmitter.on('event', function(a, b) {
      console.log(a, b, this, this === myEmitter);
      // Prints:
      //   a b MyEmitter {
      //     _events: [Object: null prototype] { event: [Function (anonymous)] },
      //     _eventsCount: 1,
      //     _maxListeners: undefined,
      //     [Symbol(shapeMode)]: false,
      //     [Symbol(kCapture)]: false
      //   } true
    });
    myEmitter.emit('event', 'a', 'b');const EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    myEmitter.on('event', function(a, b) {
      console.log(a, b, this, this === myEmitter);
      // Prints:
      //   a b MyEmitter {
      //     _events: [Object: null prototype] { event: [Function (anonymous)] },
      //     _eventsCount: 1,
      //     _maxListeners: undefined,
      //     [Symbol(shapeMode)]: false,
      //     [Symbol(kCapture)]: false
      //   } true
    });
    myEmitter.emit('event', 'a', 'b');copy

It is possible to use ES6 Arrow Functions as listeners, however, when doing
so, the `this` keyword will no longer reference the `EventEmitter` instance:

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    myEmitter.on('event', (a, b) => {
      console.log(a, b, this);
      // Prints: a b undefined
    });
    myEmitter.emit('event', 'a', 'b');const EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    myEmitter.on('event', (a, b) => {
      console.log(a, b, this);
      // Prints: a b {}
    });
    myEmitter.emit('event', 'a', 'b');copy

### Asynchronous vs. synchronous#

The `EventEmitter` calls all listeners synchronously in the order in which
they were registered. This ensures the proper sequencing of events and helps
avoid race conditions and logic errors. When appropriate, listener functions
can switch to an asynchronous mode of operation using the `setImmediate()` or
`process.nextTick()` methods:

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    myEmitter.on('event', (a, b) => {
      setImmediate(() => {
        console.log('this happens asynchronously');
      });
    });
    myEmitter.emit('event', 'a', 'b');const EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    myEmitter.on('event', (a, b) => {
      setImmediate(() => {
        console.log('this happens asynchronously');
      });
    });
    myEmitter.emit('event', 'a', 'b');copy

### Handling events only once#

When a listener is registered using the `eventEmitter.on()` method, that
listener is invoked _every time_ the named event is emitted.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    let m = 0;
    myEmitter.on('event', () => {
      console.log(++m);
    });
    myEmitter.emit('event');
    // Prints: 1
    myEmitter.emit('event');
    // Prints: 2const EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    let m = 0;
    myEmitter.on('event', () => {
      console.log(++m);
    });
    myEmitter.emit('event');
    // Prints: 1
    myEmitter.emit('event');
    // Prints: 2copy

Using the `eventEmitter.once()` method, it is possible to register a listener
that is called at most once for a particular event. Once the event is emitted,
the listener is unregistered and _then_ called.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    let m = 0;
    myEmitter.once('event', () => {
      console.log(++m);
    });
    myEmitter.emit('event');
    // Prints: 1
    myEmitter.emit('event');
    // Ignoredconst EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    let m = 0;
    myEmitter.once('event', () => {
      console.log(++m);
    });
    myEmitter.emit('event');
    // Prints: 1
    myEmitter.emit('event');
    // Ignoredcopy

### Error events#

When an error occurs within an `EventEmitter` instance, the typical action is
for an `'error'` event to be emitted. These are treated as special cases
within Node.js.

If an `EventEmitter` does _not_ have at least one listener registered for the
`'error'` event, and an `'error'` event is emitted, the error is thrown, a
stack trace is printed, and the Node.js process exits.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    myEmitter.emit('error', new Error('whoops!'));
    // Throws and crashes Node.jsconst EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    myEmitter.emit('error', new Error('whoops!'));
    // Throws and crashes Node.jscopy

To guard against crashing the Node.js process the [`domain`](domain.html)
module can be used. (Note, however, that the `node:domain` module is
deprecated.)

As a best practice, listeners should always be added for the `'error'` events.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    myEmitter.on('error', (err) => {
      console.error('whoops! there was an error');
    });
    myEmitter.emit('error', new Error('whoops!'));
    // Prints: whoops! there was an errorconst EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    myEmitter.on('error', (err) => {
      console.error('whoops! there was an error');
    });
    myEmitter.emit('error', new Error('whoops!'));
    // Prints: whoops! there was an errorcopy

It is possible to monitor `'error'` events without consuming the emitted error
by installing a listener using the symbol `events.errorMonitor`.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter, errorMonitor } from 'node:events';
    
    const myEmitter = new EventEmitter();
    myEmitter.on(errorMonitor, (err) => {
      MyMonitoringTool.log(err);
    });
    myEmitter.emit('error', new Error('whoops!'));
    // Still throws and crashes Node.jsconst { EventEmitter, errorMonitor } = require('node:events');
    
    const myEmitter = new EventEmitter();
    myEmitter.on(errorMonitor, (err) => {
      MyMonitoringTool.log(err);
    });
    myEmitter.emit('error', new Error('whoops!'));
    // Still throws and crashes Node.jscopy

### Capture rejections of promises#

Using `async` functions with event handlers is problematic, because it can
lead to an unhandled rejection in case of a thrown exception:

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    const ee = new EventEmitter();
    ee.on('something', async (value) => {
      throw new Error('kaboom');
    });const EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    const ee = new EventEmitter();
    ee.on('something', async (value) => {
      throw new Error('kaboom');
    });copy

The `captureRejections` option in the `EventEmitter` constructor or the global
setting change this behavior, installing a `.then(undefined, handler)` handler
on the `Promise`. This handler routes the exception asynchronously to the
`Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection')` method if there is one, or to `'error'` event
handler if there is none.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    const ee1 = new EventEmitter({ captureRejections: true });
    ee1.on('something', async (value) => {
      throw new Error('kaboom');
    });
    
    ee1.on('error', console.log);
    
    const ee2 = new EventEmitter({ captureRejections: true });
    ee2.on('something', async (value) => {
      throw new Error('kaboom');
    });
    
    ee2[Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection')] = console.log;const EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    const ee1 = new EventEmitter({ captureRejections: true });
    ee1.on('something', async (value) => {
      throw new Error('kaboom');
    });
    
    ee1.on('error', console.log);
    
    const ee2 = new EventEmitter({ captureRejections: true });
    ee2.on('something', async (value) => {
      throw new Error('kaboom');
    });
    
    ee2[Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection')] = console.log;copy

Setting `events.captureRejections = true` will change the default for all new
instances of `EventEmitter`.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    
    EventEmitter.captureRejections = true;
    const ee1 = new EventEmitter();
    ee1.on('something', async (value) => {
      throw new Error('kaboom');
    });
    
    ee1.on('error', console.log);const events = require('node:events');
    events.captureRejections = true;
    const ee1 = new events.EventEmitter();
    ee1.on('something', async (value) => {
      throw new Error('kaboom');
    });
    
    ee1.on('error', console.log);copy

The `'error'` events that are generated by the `captureRejections` behavior do
not have a catch handler to avoid infinite error loops: the recommendation is
to **not use`async` functions as `'error'` event handlers**.

### Class: `EventEmitter`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.4.0, v12.16.0 | Added captureRejections option.  
v0.1.26 | Added in: v0.1.26  
  
The `EventEmitter` class is defined and exposed by the `node:events` module:

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';const EventEmitter = require('node:events');copy

All `EventEmitter`s emit the event `'newListener'` when new listeners are
added and `'removeListener'` when existing listeners are removed.

It supports the following option:

  * `captureRejections` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) It enables automatic capturing of promise rejection. **Default:** `false`.

#### Event: `'newListener'`#

Added in: v0.1.26

  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) The name of the event being listened for
  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The event handler function

The `EventEmitter` instance will emit its own `'newListener'` event _before_ a
listener is added to its internal array of listeners.

Listeners registered for the `'newListener'` event are passed the event name
and a reference to the listener being added.

The fact that the event is triggered before adding the listener has a subtle
but important side effect: any _additional_ listeners registered to the same
`name` _within_ the `'newListener'` callback are inserted _before_ the
listener that is in the process of being added.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    // Only do this once so we don't loop forever
    myEmitter.once('newListener', (event, listener) => {
      if (event === 'event') {
        // Insert a new listener in front
        myEmitter.on('event', () => {
          console.log('B');
        });
      }
    });
    myEmitter.on('event', () => {
      console.log('A');
    });
    myEmitter.emit('event');
    // Prints:
    //   B
    //   Aconst EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    // Only do this once so we don't loop forever
    myEmitter.once('newListener', (event, listener) => {
      if (event === 'event') {
        // Insert a new listener in front
        myEmitter.on('event', () => {
          console.log('B');
        });
      }
    });
    myEmitter.on('event', () => {
      console.log('A');
    });
    myEmitter.emit('event');
    // Prints:
    //   B
    //   Acopy

#### Event: `'removeListener'`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.1.0, v4.7.0 | For listeners attached using `.once()`, the `listener` argument now yields the original listener function.  
v0.9.3 | Added in: v0.9.3  
  
  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) The event name
  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The event handler function

The `'removeListener'` event is emitted _after_ the `listener` is removed.

#### `emitter.addListener(eventName, listener)`#

Added in: v0.1.26

  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type)
  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Alias for `emitter.on(eventName, listener)`.

#### `emitter.emit(eventName[, ...args])`#

Added in: v0.1.26

  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type)
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Synchronously calls each of the listeners registered for the event named
`eventName`, in the order they were registered, passing the supplied arguments
to each.

Returns `true` if the event had listeners, `false` otherwise.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    const myEmitter = new EventEmitter();
    
    // First listener
    myEmitter.on('event', function firstListener() {
      console.log('Helloooo! first listener');
    });
    // Second listener
    myEmitter.on('event', function secondListener(arg1, arg2) {
      console.log(`event with parameters ${arg1}, ${arg2} in second listener`);
    });
    // Third listener
    myEmitter.on('event', function thirdListener(...args) {
      const parameters = args.join(', ');
      console.log(`event with parameters ${parameters} in third listener`);
    });
    
    console.log(myEmitter.listeners('event'));
    
    myEmitter.emit('event', 1, 2, 3, 4, 5);
    
    // Prints:
    // [
    //   [Function: firstListener],
    //   [Function: secondListener],
    //   [Function: thirdListener]
    // ]
    // Helloooo! first listener
    // event with parameters 1, 2 in second listener
    // event with parameters 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 in third listenerconst EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    const myEmitter = new EventEmitter();
    
    // First listener
    myEmitter.on('event', function firstListener() {
      console.log('Helloooo! first listener');
    });
    // Second listener
    myEmitter.on('event', function secondListener(arg1, arg2) {
      console.log(`event with parameters ${arg1}, ${arg2} in second listener`);
    });
    // Third listener
    myEmitter.on('event', function thirdListener(...args) {
      const parameters = args.join(', ');
      console.log(`event with parameters ${parameters} in third listener`);
    });
    
    console.log(myEmitter.listeners('event'));
    
    myEmitter.emit('event', 1, 2, 3, 4, 5);
    
    // Prints:
    // [
    //   [Function: firstListener],
    //   [Function: secondListener],
    //   [Function: thirdListener]
    // ]
    // Helloooo! first listener
    // event with parameters 1, 2 in second listener
    // event with parameters 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 in third listenercopy

#### `emitter.eventNames()`#

Added in: v6.0.0

  * Returns: [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array)

Returns an array listing the events for which the emitter has registered
listeners. The values in the array are strings or `Symbol`s.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    
    const myEE = new EventEmitter();
    myEE.on('foo', () => {});
    myEE.on('bar', () => {});
    
    const sym = Symbol('symbol');
    myEE.on(sym, () => {});
    
    console.log(myEE.eventNames());
    // Prints: [ 'foo', 'bar', Symbol(symbol) ]const EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    
    const myEE = new EventEmitter();
    myEE.on('foo', () => {});
    myEE.on('bar', () => {});
    
    const sym = Symbol('symbol');
    myEE.on(sym, () => {});
    
    console.log(myEE.eventNames());
    // Prints: [ 'foo', 'bar', Symbol(symbol) ]copy

#### `emitter.getMaxListeners()`#

Added in: v1.0.0

  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the current max listener value for the `EventEmitter` which is either
set by `emitter.setMaxListeners(n)` or defaults to
`events.defaultMaxListeners`.

#### `emitter.listenerCount(eventName[, listener])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.8.0, v18.16.0 | Added the `listener` argument.  
v3.2.0 | Added in: v3.2.0  
  
  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) The name of the event being listened for
  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The event handler function
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the number of listeners listening for the event named `eventName`. If
`listener` is provided, it will return how many times the listener is found in
the list of the listeners of the event.

#### `emitter.listeners(eventName)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v7.0.0 | For listeners attached using `.once()` this returns the original listeners instead of wrapper functions now.  
v0.1.26 | Added in: v0.1.26  
  
  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type)
  * Returns: [<Function[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Returns a copy of the array of listeners for the event named `eventName`.

    
    
    server.on('connection', (stream) => {
      console.log('someone connected!');
    });
    console.log(util.inspect(server.listeners('connection')));
    // Prints: [ [Function] ] copy

#### `emitter.off(eventName, listener)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type)
  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <EventEmitter>

Alias for `emitter.removeListener()`.

#### `emitter.on(eventName, listener)`#

Added in: v0.1.101

  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) The name of the event.
  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The callback function
  * Returns: <EventEmitter>

Adds the `listener` function to the end of the listeners array for the event
named `eventName`. No checks are made to see if the `listener` has already
been added. Multiple calls passing the same combination of `eventName` and
`listener` will result in the `listener` being added, and called, multiple
times.

    
    
    server.on('connection', (stream) => {
      console.log('someone connected!');
    }); copy

Returns a reference to the `EventEmitter`, so that calls can be chained.

By default, event listeners are invoked in the order they are added. The
`emitter.prependListener()` method can be used as an alternative to add the
event listener to the beginning of the listeners array.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    const myEE = new EventEmitter();
    myEE.on('foo', () => console.log('a'));
    myEE.prependListener('foo', () => console.log('b'));
    myEE.emit('foo');
    // Prints:
    //   b
    //   aconst EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    const myEE = new EventEmitter();
    myEE.on('foo', () => console.log('a'));
    myEE.prependListener('foo', () => console.log('b'));
    myEE.emit('foo');
    // Prints:
    //   b
    //   acopy

#### `emitter.once(eventName, listener)`#

Added in: v0.3.0

  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) The name of the event.
  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The callback function
  * Returns: <EventEmitter>

Adds a **one-time** `listener` function for the event named `eventName`. The
next time `eventName` is triggered, this listener is removed and then invoked.

    
    
    server.once('connection', (stream) => {
      console.log('Ah, we have our first user!');
    }); copy

Returns a reference to the `EventEmitter`, so that calls can be chained.

By default, event listeners are invoked in the order they are added. The
`emitter.prependOnceListener()` method can be used as an alternative to add
the event listener to the beginning of the listeners array.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    const myEE = new EventEmitter();
    myEE.once('foo', () => console.log('a'));
    myEE.prependOnceListener('foo', () => console.log('b'));
    myEE.emit('foo');
    // Prints:
    //   b
    //   aconst EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    const myEE = new EventEmitter();
    myEE.once('foo', () => console.log('a'));
    myEE.prependOnceListener('foo', () => console.log('b'));
    myEE.emit('foo');
    // Prints:
    //   b
    //   acopy

#### `emitter.prependListener(eventName, listener)`#

Added in: v6.0.0

  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) The name of the event.
  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The callback function
  * Returns: <EventEmitter>

Adds the `listener` function to the _beginning_ of the listeners array for the
event named `eventName`. No checks are made to see if the `listener` has
already been added. Multiple calls passing the same combination of `eventName`
and `listener` will result in the `listener` being added, and called, multiple
times.

    
    
    server.prependListener('connection', (stream) => {
      console.log('someone connected!');
    }); copy

Returns a reference to the `EventEmitter`, so that calls can be chained.

#### `emitter.prependOnceListener(eventName, listener)`#

Added in: v6.0.0

  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) The name of the event.
  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The callback function
  * Returns: <EventEmitter>

Adds a **one-time** `listener` function for the event named `eventName` to the
_beginning_ of the listeners array. The next time `eventName` is triggered,
this listener is removed, and then invoked.

    
    
    server.prependOnceListener('connection', (stream) => {
      console.log('Ah, we have our first user!');
    }); copy

Returns a reference to the `EventEmitter`, so that calls can be chained.

#### `emitter.removeAllListeners([eventName])`#

Added in: v0.1.26

  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type)
  * Returns: <EventEmitter>

Removes all listeners, or those of the specified `eventName`.

It is bad practice to remove listeners added elsewhere in the code,
particularly when the `EventEmitter` instance was created by some other
component or module (e.g. sockets or file streams).

Returns a reference to the `EventEmitter`, so that calls can be chained.

#### `emitter.removeListener(eventName, listener)`#

Added in: v0.1.26

  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type)
  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <EventEmitter>

Removes the specified `listener` from the listener array for the event named
`eventName`.

    
    
    const callback = (stream) => {
      console.log('someone connected!');
    };
    server.on('connection', callback);
    // ...
    server.removeListener('connection', callback); copy

`removeListener()` will remove, at most, one instance of a listener from the
listener array. If any single listener has been added multiple times to the
listener array for the specified `eventName`, then `removeListener()` must be
called multiple times to remove each instance.

Once an event is emitted, all listeners attached to it at the time of emitting
are called in order. This implies that any `removeListener()` or
`removeAllListeners()` calls _after_ emitting and _before_ the last listener
finishes execution will not remove them from `emit()` in progress. Subsequent
events behave as expected.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    
    const callbackA = () => {
      console.log('A');
      myEmitter.removeListener('event', callbackB);
    };
    
    const callbackB = () => {
      console.log('B');
    };
    
    myEmitter.on('event', callbackA);
    
    myEmitter.on('event', callbackB);
    
    // callbackA removes listener callbackB but it will still be called.
    // Internal listener array at time of emit [callbackA, callbackB]
    myEmitter.emit('event');
    // Prints:
    //   A
    //   B
    
    // callbackB is now removed.
    // Internal listener array [callbackA]
    myEmitter.emit('event');
    // Prints:
    //   Aconst EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    class MyEmitter extends EventEmitter {}
    const myEmitter = new MyEmitter();
    
    const callbackA = () => {
      console.log('A');
      myEmitter.removeListener('event', callbackB);
    };
    
    const callbackB = () => {
      console.log('B');
    };
    
    myEmitter.on('event', callbackA);
    
    myEmitter.on('event', callbackB);
    
    // callbackA removes listener callbackB but it will still be called.
    // Internal listener array at time of emit [callbackA, callbackB]
    myEmitter.emit('event');
    // Prints:
    //   A
    //   B
    
    // callbackB is now removed.
    // Internal listener array [callbackA]
    myEmitter.emit('event');
    // Prints:
    //   Acopy

Because listeners are managed using an internal array, calling this will
change the position indexes of any listener registered _after_ the listener
being removed. This will not impact the order in which listeners are called,
but it means that any copies of the listener array as returned by the
`emitter.listeners()` method will need to be recreated.

When a single function has been added as a handler multiple times for a single
event (as in the example below), `removeListener()` will remove the most
recently added instance. In the example the `once('ping')` listener is
removed:

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    const ee = new EventEmitter();
    
    function pong() {
      console.log('pong');
    }
    
    ee.on('ping', pong);
    ee.once('ping', pong);
    ee.removeListener('ping', pong);
    
    ee.emit('ping');
    ee.emit('ping');const EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    const ee = new EventEmitter();
    
    function pong() {
      console.log('pong');
    }
    
    ee.on('ping', pong);
    ee.once('ping', pong);
    ee.removeListener('ping', pong);
    
    ee.emit('ping');
    ee.emit('ping');copy

Returns a reference to the `EventEmitter`, so that calls can be chained.

#### `emitter.setMaxListeners(n)`#

Added in: v0.3.5

  * `n` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * Returns: <EventEmitter>

By default `EventEmitter`s will print a warning if more than `10` listeners
are added for a particular event. This is a useful default that helps finding
memory leaks. The `emitter.setMaxListeners()` method allows the limit to be
modified for this specific `EventEmitter` instance. The value can be set to
`Infinity` (or `0`) to indicate an unlimited number of listeners.

Returns a reference to the `EventEmitter`, so that calls can be chained.

#### `emitter.rawListeners(eventName)`#

Added in: v9.4.0

  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type)
  * Returns: [<Function[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Returns a copy of the array of listeners for the event named `eventName`,
including any wrappers (such as those created by `.once()`).

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    const emitter = new EventEmitter();
    emitter.once('log', () => console.log('log once'));
    
    // Returns a new Array with a function `onceWrapper` which has a property
    // `listener` which contains the original listener bound above
    const listeners = emitter.rawListeners('log');
    const logFnWrapper = listeners[0];
    
    // Logs "log once" to the console and does not unbind the `once` event
    logFnWrapper.listener();
    
    // Logs "log once" to the console and removes the listener
    logFnWrapper();
    
    emitter.on('log', () => console.log('log persistently'));
    // Will return a new Array with a single function bound by `.on()` above
    const newListeners = emitter.rawListeners('log');
    
    // Logs "log persistently" twice
    newListeners[0]();
    emitter.emit('log');const EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    const emitter = new EventEmitter();
    emitter.once('log', () => console.log('log once'));
    
    // Returns a new Array with a function `onceWrapper` which has a property
    // `listener` which contains the original listener bound above
    const listeners = emitter.rawListeners('log');
    const logFnWrapper = listeners[0];
    
    // Logs "log once" to the console and does not unbind the `once` event
    logFnWrapper.listener();
    
    // Logs "log once" to the console and removes the listener
    logFnWrapper();
    
    emitter.on('log', () => console.log('log persistently'));
    // Will return a new Array with a single function bound by `.on()` above
    const newListeners = emitter.rawListeners('log');
    
    // Logs "log persistently" twice
    newListeners[0]();
    emitter.emit('log');copy

#### `emitter[Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection')](err, eventName[, ...args])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.4.0, v16.14.0 | No longer experimental.  
v13.4.0, v12.16.0 | Added in: v13.4.0, v12.16.0  
  
  * `err` Error
  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type)
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

The `Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection')` method is called in case a promise
rejection happens when emitting an event and `captureRejections` is enabled on
the emitter. It is possible to use `events.captureRejectionSymbol` in place of
`Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection')`.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter, captureRejectionSymbol } from 'node:events';
    
    class MyClass extends EventEmitter {
      constructor() {
        super({ captureRejections: true });
      }
    
      [captureRejectionSymbol](err, event, ...args) {
        console.log('rejection happened for', event, 'with', err, ...args);
        this.destroy(err);
      }
    
      destroy(err) {
        // Tear the resource down here.
      }
    }const { EventEmitter, captureRejectionSymbol } = require('node:events');
    
    class MyClass extends EventEmitter {
      constructor() {
        super({ captureRejections: true });
      }
    
      [captureRejectionSymbol](err, event, ...args) {
        console.log('rejection happened for', event, 'with', err, ...args);
        this.destroy(err);
      }
    
      destroy(err) {
        // Tear the resource down here.
      }
    }copy

### `events.defaultMaxListeners`#

Added in: v0.11.2

By default, a maximum of `10` listeners can be registered for any single
event. This limit can be changed for individual `EventEmitter` instances using
the `emitter.setMaxListeners(n)` method. To change the default for _all_
`EventEmitter` instances, the `events.defaultMaxListeners` property can be
used. If this value is not a positive number, a `RangeError` is thrown.

Take caution when setting the `events.defaultMaxListeners` because the change
affects _all_ `EventEmitter` instances, including those created before the
change is made. However, calling `emitter.setMaxListeners(n)` still has
precedence over `events.defaultMaxListeners`.

This is not a hard limit. The `EventEmitter` instance will allow more
listeners to be added but will output a trace warning to stderr indicating
that a "possible EventEmitter memory leak" has been detected. For any single
`EventEmitter`, the `emitter.getMaxListeners()` and
`emitter.setMaxListeners()` methods can be used to temporarily avoid this
warning:

`defaultMaxListeners` has no effect on `AbortSignal` instances. While it is
still possible to use `emitter.setMaxListeners(n)` to set a warning limit for
individual `AbortSignal` instances, per default `AbortSignal` instances will
not warn.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    const emitter = new EventEmitter();
    emitter.setMaxListeners(emitter.getMaxListeners() + 1);
    emitter.once('event', () => {
      // do stuff
      emitter.setMaxListeners(Math.max(emitter.getMaxListeners() - 1, 0));
    });const EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    const emitter = new EventEmitter();
    emitter.setMaxListeners(emitter.getMaxListeners() + 1);
    emitter.once('event', () => {
      // do stuff
      emitter.setMaxListeners(Math.max(emitter.getMaxListeners() - 1, 0));
    });copy

The `--trace-warnings` command-line flag can be used to display the stack
trace for such warnings.

The emitted warning can be inspected with `process.on('warning')` and will
have the additional `emitter`, `type`, and `count` properties, referring to
the event emitter instance, the event's name and the number of attached
listeners, respectively. Its `name` property is set to
`'MaxListenersExceededWarning'`.

### `events.errorMonitor`#

Added in: v13.6.0, v12.17.0

This symbol shall be used to install a listener for only monitoring `'error'`
events. Listeners installed using this symbol are called before the regular
`'error'` listeners are called.

Installing a listener using this symbol does not change the behavior once an
`'error'` event is emitted. Therefore, the process will still crash if no
regular `'error'` listener is installed.

### `events.getEventListeners(emitterOrTarget, eventName)`#

Added in: v15.2.0, v14.17.0

  * `emitterOrTarget` <EventEmitter> | <EventTarget>
  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type)
  * Returns: [<Function[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Returns a copy of the array of listeners for the event named `eventName`.

For `EventEmitter`s this behaves exactly the same as calling `.listeners` on
the emitter.

For `EventTarget`s this is the only way to get the event listeners for the
event target. This is useful for debugging and diagnostic purposes.

    
    
    import { getEventListeners, EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    
    {
      const ee = new EventEmitter();
      const listener = () => console.log('Events are fun');
      ee.on('foo', listener);
      console.log(getEventListeners(ee, 'foo')); // [ [Function: listener] ]
    }
    {
      const et = new EventTarget();
      const listener = () => console.log('Events are fun');
      et.addEventListener('foo', listener);
      console.log(getEventListeners(et, 'foo')); // [ [Function: listener] ]
    }const { getEventListeners, EventEmitter } = require('node:events');
    
    {
      const ee = new EventEmitter();
      const listener = () => console.log('Events are fun');
      ee.on('foo', listener);
      console.log(getEventListeners(ee, 'foo')); // [ [Function: listener] ]
    }
    {
      const et = new EventTarget();
      const listener = () => console.log('Events are fun');
      et.addEventListener('foo', listener);
      console.log(getEventListeners(et, 'foo')); // [ [Function: listener] ]
    }copy

### `events.getMaxListeners(emitterOrTarget)`#

Added in: v19.9.0, v18.17.0

  * `emitterOrTarget` <EventEmitter> | <EventTarget>
  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the currently set max amount of listeners.

For `EventEmitter`s this behaves exactly the same as calling
`.getMaxListeners` on the emitter.

For `EventTarget`s this is the only way to get the max event listeners for the
event target. If the number of event handlers on a single EventTarget exceeds
the max set, the EventTarget will print a warning.

    
    
    import { getMaxListeners, setMaxListeners, EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    
    {
      const ee = new EventEmitter();
      console.log(getMaxListeners(ee)); // 10
      setMaxListeners(11, ee);
      console.log(getMaxListeners(ee)); // 11
    }
    {
      const et = new EventTarget();
      console.log(getMaxListeners(et)); // 10
      setMaxListeners(11, et);
      console.log(getMaxListeners(et)); // 11
    }const { getMaxListeners, setMaxListeners, EventEmitter } = require('node:events');
    
    {
      const ee = new EventEmitter();
      console.log(getMaxListeners(ee)); // 10
      setMaxListeners(11, ee);
      console.log(getMaxListeners(ee)); // 11
    }
    {
      const et = new EventTarget();
      console.log(getMaxListeners(et)); // 10
      setMaxListeners(11, et);
      console.log(getMaxListeners(et)); // 11
    }copy

### `events.once(emitter, name[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The `signal` option is supported now.  
v11.13.0, v10.16.0 | Added in: v11.13.0, v10.16.0  
  
  * `emitter` <EventEmitter>
  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Can be used to cancel waiting for the event.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Creates a `Promise` that is fulfilled when the `EventEmitter` emits the given
event or that is rejected if the `EventEmitter` emits `'error'` while waiting.
The `Promise` will resolve with an array of all the arguments emitted to the
given event.

This method is intentionally generic and works with the web platform
[EventTarget](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#interface-eventtarget) interface,
which has no special `'error'` event semantics and does not listen to the
`'error'` event.

    
    
    import { once, EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    const ee = new EventEmitter();
    
    process.nextTick(() => {
      ee.emit('myevent', 42);
    });
    
    const [value] = await once(ee, 'myevent');
    console.log(value);
    
    const err = new Error('kaboom');
    process.nextTick(() => {
      ee.emit('error', err);
    });
    
    try {
      await once(ee, 'myevent');
    } catch (err) {
      console.error('error happened', err);
    }const { once, EventEmitter } = require('node:events');
    
    async function run() {
      const ee = new EventEmitter();
    
      process.nextTick(() => {
        ee.emit('myevent', 42);
      });
    
      const [value] = await once(ee, 'myevent');
      console.log(value);
    
      const err = new Error('kaboom');
      process.nextTick(() => {
        ee.emit('error', err);
      });
    
      try {
        await once(ee, 'myevent');
      } catch (err) {
        console.error('error happened', err);
      }
    }
    
    run();copy

The special handling of the `'error'` event is only used when `events.once()`
is used to wait for another event. If `events.once()` is used to wait for the
'`error'` event itself, then it is treated as any other kind of event without
special handling:

    
    
    import { EventEmitter, once } from 'node:events';
    
    const ee = new EventEmitter();
    
    once(ee, 'error')
      .then(([err]) => console.log('ok', err.message))
      .catch((err) => console.error('error', err.message));
    
    ee.emit('error', new Error('boom'));
    
    // Prints: ok boomconst { EventEmitter, once } = require('node:events');
    
    const ee = new EventEmitter();
    
    once(ee, 'error')
      .then(([err]) => console.log('ok', err.message))
      .catch((err) => console.error('error', err.message));
    
    ee.emit('error', new Error('boom'));
    
    // Prints: ok boomcopy

An <AbortSignal> can be used to cancel waiting for the event:

    
    
    import { EventEmitter, once } from 'node:events';
    
    const ee = new EventEmitter();
    const ac = new AbortController();
    
    async function foo(emitter, event, signal) {
      try {
        await once(emitter, event, { signal });
        console.log('event emitted!');
      } catch (error) {
        if (error.name === 'AbortError') {
          console.error('Waiting for the event was canceled!');
        } else {
          console.error('There was an error', error.message);
        }
      }
    }
    
    foo(ee, 'foo', ac.signal);
    ac.abort(); // Prints: Waiting for the event was canceled!const { EventEmitter, once } = require('node:events');
    
    const ee = new EventEmitter();
    const ac = new AbortController();
    
    async function foo(emitter, event, signal) {
      try {
        await once(emitter, event, { signal });
        console.log('event emitted!');
      } catch (error) {
        if (error.name === 'AbortError') {
          console.error('Waiting for the event was canceled!');
        } else {
          console.error('There was an error', error.message);
        }
      }
    }
    
    foo(ee, 'foo', ac.signal);
    ac.abort(); // Prints: Waiting for the event was canceled!copy

#### Awaiting multiple events emitted on `process.nextTick()`#

There is an edge case worth noting when using the `events.once()` function to
await multiple events emitted on in the same batch of `process.nextTick()`
operations, or whenever multiple events are emitted synchronously.
Specifically, because the `process.nextTick()` queue is drained before the
`Promise` microtask queue, and because `EventEmitter` emits all events
synchronously, it is possible for `events.once()` to miss an event.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter, once } from 'node:events';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    const myEE = new EventEmitter();
    
    async function foo() {
      await once(myEE, 'bar');
      console.log('bar');
    
      // This Promise will never resolve because the 'foo' event will
      // have already been emitted before the Promise is created.
      await once(myEE, 'foo');
      console.log('foo');
    }
    
    process.nextTick(() => {
      myEE.emit('bar');
      myEE.emit('foo');
    });
    
    foo().then(() => console.log('done'));const { EventEmitter, once } = require('node:events');
    
    const myEE = new EventEmitter();
    
    async function foo() {
      await once(myEE, 'bar');
      console.log('bar');
    
      // This Promise will never resolve because the 'foo' event will
      // have already been emitted before the Promise is created.
      await once(myEE, 'foo');
      console.log('foo');
    }
    
    process.nextTick(() => {
      myEE.emit('bar');
      myEE.emit('foo');
    });
    
    foo().then(() => console.log('done'));copy

To catch both events, create each of the Promises _before_ awaiting either of
them, then it becomes possible to use `Promise.all()`, `Promise.race()`, or
`Promise.allSettled()`:

    
    
    import { EventEmitter, once } from 'node:events';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    const myEE = new EventEmitter();
    
    async function foo() {
      await Promise.all([once(myEE, 'bar'), once(myEE, 'foo')]);
      console.log('foo', 'bar');
    }
    
    process.nextTick(() => {
      myEE.emit('bar');
      myEE.emit('foo');
    });
    
    foo().then(() => console.log('done'));const { EventEmitter, once } = require('node:events');
    
    const myEE = new EventEmitter();
    
    async function foo() {
      await Promise.all([once(myEE, 'bar'), once(myEE, 'foo')]);
      console.log('foo', 'bar');
    }
    
    process.nextTick(() => {
      myEE.emit('bar');
      myEE.emit('foo');
    });
    
    foo().then(() => console.log('done'));copy

### `events.captureRejections`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.4.0, v16.14.0 | No longer experimental.  
v13.4.0, v12.16.0 | Added in: v13.4.0, v12.16.0  
  
Value: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Change the default `captureRejections` option on all new `EventEmitter`
objects.

### `events.captureRejectionSymbol`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.4.0, v16.14.0 | No longer experimental.  
v13.4.0, v12.16.0 | Added in: v13.4.0, v12.16.0  
  
Value: `Symbol.for('nodejs.rejection')`

See how to write a custom rejection handler.

### `events.listenerCount(emitter, eventName)`#

Added in: v0.9.12Deprecated since: v3.2.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `emitter.listenerCount()` instead.

  * `emitter` <EventEmitter> The emitter to query
  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) The event name

A class method that returns the number of listeners for the given `eventName`
registered on the given `emitter`.

    
    
    import { EventEmitter, listenerCount } from 'node:events';
    
    const myEmitter = new EventEmitter();
    myEmitter.on('event', () => {});
    myEmitter.on('event', () => {});
    console.log(listenerCount(myEmitter, 'event'));
    // Prints: 2const { EventEmitter, listenerCount } = require('node:events');
    
    const myEmitter = new EventEmitter();
    myEmitter.on('event', () => {});
    myEmitter.on('event', () => {});
    console.log(listenerCount(myEmitter, 'event'));
    // Prints: 2copy

### `events.on(emitter, eventName[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0, v20.13.0 | Support `highWaterMark` and `lowWaterMark` options, For consistency. Old options are still supported.  
v20.0.0 | The `close`, `highWatermark`, and `lowWatermark` options are supported now.  
v13.6.0, v12.16.0 | Added in: v13.6.0, v12.16.0  
  
  * `emitter` <EventEmitter>
  * `eventName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) The name of the event being listened for
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Can be used to cancel awaiting events.
    * `close` \- [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Names of events that will end the iteration.
    * `highWaterMark` \- [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER` The high watermark. The emitter is paused every time the size of events being buffered is higher than it. Supported only on emitters implementing `pause()` and `resume()` methods.
    * `lowWaterMark` \- [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `1` The low watermark. The emitter is resumed every time the size of events being buffered is lower than it. Supported only on emitters implementing `pause()` and `resume()` methods.
  * Returns: [<AsyncIterator>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterator-interface) that iterates `eventName` events emitted by the `emitter`

    
    
    import { on, EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    const ee = new EventEmitter();
    
    // Emit later on
    process.nextTick(() => {
      ee.emit('foo', 'bar');
      ee.emit('foo', 42);
    });
    
    for await (const event of on(ee, 'foo')) {
      // The execution of this inner block is synchronous and it
      // processes one event at a time (even with await). Do not use
      // if concurrent execution is required.
      console.log(event); // prints ['bar'] [42]
    }
    // Unreachable hereconst { on, EventEmitter } = require('node:events');
    
    (async () => {
      const ee = new EventEmitter();
    
      // Emit later on
      process.nextTick(() => {
        ee.emit('foo', 'bar');
        ee.emit('foo', 42);
      });
    
      for await (const event of on(ee, 'foo')) {
        // The execution of this inner block is synchronous and it
        // processes one event at a time (even with await). Do not use
        // if concurrent execution is required.
        console.log(event); // prints ['bar'] [42]
      }
      // Unreachable here
    })();copy

Returns an `AsyncIterator` that iterates `eventName` events. It will throw if
the `EventEmitter` emits `'error'`. It removes all listeners when exiting the
loop. The `value` returned by each iteration is an array composed of the
emitted event arguments.

An <AbortSignal> can be used to cancel waiting on events:

    
    
    import { on, EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    const ac = new AbortController();
    
    (async () => {
      const ee = new EventEmitter();
    
      // Emit later on
      process.nextTick(() => {
        ee.emit('foo', 'bar');
        ee.emit('foo', 42);
      });
    
      for await (const event of on(ee, 'foo', { signal: ac.signal })) {
        // The execution of this inner block is synchronous and it
        // processes one event at a time (even with await). Do not use
        // if concurrent execution is required.
        console.log(event); // prints ['bar'] [42]
      }
      // Unreachable here
    })();
    
    process.nextTick(() => ac.abort());const { on, EventEmitter } = require('node:events');
    
    const ac = new AbortController();
    
    (async () => {
      const ee = new EventEmitter();
    
      // Emit later on
      process.nextTick(() => {
        ee.emit('foo', 'bar');
        ee.emit('foo', 42);
      });
    
      for await (const event of on(ee, 'foo', { signal: ac.signal })) {
        // The execution of this inner block is synchronous and it
        // processes one event at a time (even with await). Do not use
        // if concurrent execution is required.
        console.log(event); // prints ['bar'] [42]
      }
      // Unreachable here
    })();
    
    process.nextTick(() => ac.abort());copy

### `events.setMaxListeners(n[, ...eventTargets])`#

Added in: v15.4.0

  * `n` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A non-negative number. The maximum number of listeners per `EventTarget` event.
  * `...eventsTargets` <EventTarget[]> | <EventEmitter[]> Zero or more <EventTarget> or <EventEmitter> instances. If none are specified, `n` is set as the default max for all newly created <EventTarget> and <EventEmitter> objects.

    
    
    import { setMaxListeners, EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    
    const target = new EventTarget();
    const emitter = new EventEmitter();
    
    setMaxListeners(5, target, emitter);const {
      setMaxListeners,
      EventEmitter,
    } = require('node:events');
    
    const target = new EventTarget();
    const emitter = new EventEmitter();
    
    setMaxListeners(5, target, emitter);copy

### `events.addAbortListener(signal, listener)`#

Added in: v20.5.0, v18.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `signal` <AbortSignal>
  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <EventListener>
  * Returns: [<Disposable>](https://tc39.es/proposal-explicit-resource-management/#sec-disposable-interface) A Disposable that removes the `abort` listener.

Listens once to the `abort` event on the provided `signal`.

Listening to the `abort` event on abort signals is unsafe and may lead to
resource leaks since another third party with the signal can call
`e.stopImmediatePropagation()`. Unfortunately Node.js cannot change this since
it would violate the web standard. Additionally, the original API makes it
easy to forget to remove listeners.

This API allows safely using `AbortSignal`s in Node.js APIs by solving these
two issues by listening to the event such that `stopImmediatePropagation` does
not prevent the listener from running.

Returns a disposable so that it may be unsubscribed from more easily.

    
    
    const { addAbortListener } = require('node:events');
    
    function example(signal) {
      let disposable;
      try {
        signal.addEventListener('abort', (e) => e.stopImmediatePropagation());
        disposable = addAbortListener(signal, (e) => {
          // Do something when signal is aborted.
        });
      } finally {
        disposable?.[Symbol.dispose]();
      }
    }import { addAbortListener } from 'node:events';
    
    function example(signal) {
      let disposable;
      try {
        signal.addEventListener('abort', (e) => e.stopImmediatePropagation());
        disposable = addAbortListener(signal, (e) => {
          // Do something when signal is aborted.
        });
      } finally {
        disposable?.[Symbol.dispose]();
      }
    }copy

### Class: `events.EventEmitterAsyncResource extends EventEmitter`#

Added in: v17.4.0, v16.14.0

Integrates `EventEmitter` with <AsyncResource> for `EventEmitter`s that
require manual async tracking. Specifically, all events emitted by instances
of `events.EventEmitterAsyncResource` will run within its [async
context](async_context.html).

    
    
    import { EventEmitterAsyncResource, EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
    import { notStrictEqual, strictEqual } from 'node:assert';
    import { executionAsyncId, triggerAsyncId } from 'node:async_hooks';
    
    // Async tracking tooling will identify this as 'Q'.
    const ee1 = new EventEmitterAsyncResource({ name: 'Q' });
    
    // 'foo' listeners will run in the EventEmitters async context.
    ee1.on('foo', () => {
      strictEqual(executionAsyncId(), ee1.asyncId);
      strictEqual(triggerAsyncId(), ee1.triggerAsyncId);
    });
    
    const ee2 = new EventEmitter();
    
    // 'foo' listeners on ordinary EventEmitters that do not track async
    // context, however, run in the same async context as the emit().
    ee2.on('foo', () => {
      notStrictEqual(executionAsyncId(), ee2.asyncId);
      notStrictEqual(triggerAsyncId(), ee2.triggerAsyncId);
    });
    
    Promise.resolve().then(() => {
      ee1.emit('foo');
      ee2.emit('foo');
    });const { EventEmitterAsyncResource, EventEmitter } = require('node:events');
    const { notStrictEqual, strictEqual } = require('node:assert');
    const { executionAsyncId, triggerAsyncId } = require('node:async_hooks');
    
    // Async tracking tooling will identify this as 'Q'.
    const ee1 = new EventEmitterAsyncResource({ name: 'Q' });
    
    // 'foo' listeners will run in the EventEmitters async context.
    ee1.on('foo', () => {
      strictEqual(executionAsyncId(), ee1.asyncId);
      strictEqual(triggerAsyncId(), ee1.triggerAsyncId);
    });
    
    const ee2 = new EventEmitter();
    
    // 'foo' listeners on ordinary EventEmitters that do not track async
    // context, however, run in the same async context as the emit().
    ee2.on('foo', () => {
      notStrictEqual(executionAsyncId(), ee2.asyncId);
      notStrictEqual(triggerAsyncId(), ee2.triggerAsyncId);
    });
    
    Promise.resolve().then(() => {
      ee1.emit('foo');
      ee2.emit('foo');
    });copy

The `EventEmitterAsyncResource` class has the same methods and takes the same
options as `EventEmitter` and `AsyncResource` themselves.

#### `new events.EventEmitterAsyncResource([options])`#

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `captureRejections` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) It enables automatic capturing of promise rejection. **Default:** `false`.
    * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The type of async event. **Default:** [`new.target.name`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/new.target).
    * `triggerAsyncId` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The ID of the execution context that created this async event. **Default:** `executionAsyncId()`.
    * `requireManualDestroy` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `true`, disables `emitDestroy` when the object is garbage collected. This usually does not need to be set (even if `emitDestroy` is called manually), unless the resource's `asyncId` is retrieved and the sensitive API's `emitDestroy` is called with it. When set to `false`, the `emitDestroy` call on garbage collection will only take place if there is at least one active `destroy` hook. **Default:** `false`.

#### `eventemitterasyncresource.asyncId`#

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The unique `asyncId` assigned to the resource.

#### `eventemitterasyncresource.asyncResource`#

  * Type: The underlying <AsyncResource>.

The returned `AsyncResource` object has an additional `eventEmitter` property
that provides a reference to this `EventEmitterAsyncResource`.

#### `eventemitterasyncresource.emitDestroy()`#

Call all `destroy` hooks. This should only ever be called once. An error will
be thrown if it is called more than once. This **must** be manually called. If
the resource is left to be collected by the GC then the `destroy` hooks will
never be called.

#### `eventemitterasyncresource.triggerAsyncId`#

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The same `triggerAsyncId` that is passed to the `AsyncResource` constructor.

### `EventTarget` and `Event` API#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | changed EventTarget error handling.  
v15.4.0 | No longer experimental.  
v15.0.0 | The `EventTarget` and `Event` classes are now available as globals.  
v14.5.0 | Added in: v14.5.0  
  
The `EventTarget` and `Event` objects are a Node.js-specific implementation of
the [`EventTarget` Web API](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#eventtarget) that are
exposed by some Node.js core APIs.

    
    
    const target = new EventTarget();
    
    target.addEventListener('foo', (event) => {
      console.log('foo event happened!');
    }); copy

#### Node.js `EventTarget` vs. DOM `EventTarget`#

There are two key differences between the Node.js `EventTarget` and the
[`EventTarget` Web API](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#eventtarget):

  1. Whereas DOM `EventTarget` instances _may_ be hierarchical, there is no concept of hierarchy and event propagation in Node.js. That is, an event dispatched to an `EventTarget` does not propagate through a hierarchy of nested target objects that may each have their own set of handlers for the event.
  2. In the Node.js `EventTarget`, if an event listener is an async function or returns a `Promise`, and the returned `Promise` rejects, the rejection is automatically captured and handled the same way as a listener that throws synchronously (see `EventTarget` error handling for details).

#### `NodeEventTarget` vs. `EventEmitter`#

The `NodeEventTarget` object implements a modified subset of the
`EventEmitter` API that allows it to closely _emulate_ an `EventEmitter` in
certain situations. A `NodeEventTarget` is _not_ an instance of `EventEmitter`
and cannot be used in place of an `EventEmitter` in most cases.

  1. Unlike `EventEmitter`, any given `listener` can be registered at most once per event `type`. Attempts to register a `listener` multiple times are ignored.
  2. The `NodeEventTarget` does not emulate the full `EventEmitter` API. Specifically the `prependListener()`, `prependOnceListener()`, `rawListeners()`, and `errorMonitor` APIs are not emulated. The `'newListener'` and `'removeListener'` events will also not be emitted.
  3. The `NodeEventTarget` does not implement any special default behavior for events with type `'error'`.
  4. The `NodeEventTarget` supports `EventListener` objects as well as functions as handlers for all event types.

#### Event listener#

Event listeners registered for an event `type` may either be JavaScript
functions or objects with a `handleEvent` property whose value is a function.

In either case, the handler function is invoked with the `event` argument
passed to the `eventTarget.dispatchEvent()` function.

Async functions may be used as event listeners. If an async handler function
rejects, the rejection is captured and handled as described in `EventTarget`
error handling.

An error thrown by one handler function does not prevent the other handlers
from being invoked.

The return value of a handler function is ignored.

Handlers are always invoked in the order they were added.

Handler functions may mutate the `event` object.

    
    
    function handler1(event) {
      console.log(event.type);  // Prints 'foo'
      event.a = 1;
    }
    
    async function handler2(event) {
      console.log(event.type);  // Prints 'foo'
      console.log(event.a);  // Prints 1
    }
    
    const handler3 = {
      handleEvent(event) {
        console.log(event.type);  // Prints 'foo'
      },
    };
    
    const handler4 = {
      async handleEvent(event) {
        console.log(event.type);  // Prints 'foo'
      },
    };
    
    const target = new EventTarget();
    
    target.addEventListener('foo', handler1);
    target.addEventListener('foo', handler2);
    target.addEventListener('foo', handler3);
    target.addEventListener('foo', handler4, { once: true }); copy

#### `EventTarget` error handling#

When a registered event listener throws (or returns a Promise that rejects),
by default the error is treated as an uncaught exception on
`process.nextTick()`. This means uncaught exceptions in `EventTarget`s will
terminate the Node.js process by default.

Throwing within an event listener will _not_ stop the other registered
handlers from being invoked.

The `EventTarget` does not implement any special default handling for
`'error'` type events like `EventEmitter`.

Currently errors are first forwarded to the `process.on('error')` event before
reaching `process.on('uncaughtException')`. This behavior is deprecated and
will change in a future release to align `EventTarget` with other Node.js
APIs. Any code relying on the `process.on('error')` event should be aligned
with the new behavior.

#### Class: `Event`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The `Event` class is now available through the global object.  
v14.5.0 | Added in: v14.5.0  
  
The `Event` object is an adaptation of the [`Event` Web
API](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#event). Instances are created internally by
Node.js.

##### `event.bubbles`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * Type: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Always returns `false`.

This is not used in Node.js and is provided purely for completeness.

##### `event.cancelBubble`#

Added in: v14.5.0

Stability: 3 \- Legacy: Use `event.stopPropagation()` instead.

  * Type: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Alias for `event.stopPropagation()` if set to `true`. This is not used in
Node.js and is provided purely for completeness.

##### `event.cancelable`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * Type: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) True if the event was created with the `cancelable` option.

##### `event.composed`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * Type: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Always returns `false`.

This is not used in Node.js and is provided purely for completeness.

##### `event.composedPath()`#

Added in: v14.5.0

Returns an array containing the current `EventTarget` as the only entry or
empty if the event is not being dispatched. This is not used in Node.js and is
provided purely for completeness.

##### `event.currentTarget`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * Type: <EventTarget> The `EventTarget` dispatching the event.

Alias for `event.target`.

##### `event.defaultPrevented`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * Type: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` if `cancelable` is `true` and `event.preventDefault()` has been
called.

##### `event.eventPhase`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Returns `0` while an event is not being dispatched, `2` while it is being dispatched.

This is not used in Node.js and is provided purely for completeness.

##### `event.initEvent(type[, bubbles[, cancelable]])`#

Added in: v19.5.0

Stability: 3 \- Legacy: The WHATWG spec considers it deprecated and users
shouldn't use it at all.

  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `bubbles` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
  * `cancelable` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Redundant with event constructors and incapable of setting `composed`. This is
not used in Node.js and is provided purely for completeness.

##### `event.isTrusted`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * Type: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The <AbortSignal> `"abort"` event is emitted with `isTrusted` set to `true`.
The value is `false` in all other cases.

##### `event.preventDefault()`#

Added in: v14.5.0

Sets the `defaultPrevented` property to `true` if `cancelable` is `true`.

##### `event.returnValue`#

Added in: v14.5.0

Stability: 3 \- Legacy: Use `event.defaultPrevented` instead.

  * Type: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) True if the event has not been canceled.

The value of `event.returnValue` is always the opposite of
`event.defaultPrevented`. This is not used in Node.js and is provided purely
for completeness.

##### `event.srcElement`#

Added in: v14.5.0

Stability: 3 \- Legacy: Use `event.target` instead.

  * Type: <EventTarget> The `EventTarget` dispatching the event.

Alias for `event.target`.

##### `event.stopImmediatePropagation()`#

Added in: v14.5.0

Stops the invocation of event listeners after the current one completes.

##### `event.stopPropagation()`#

Added in: v14.5.0

This is not used in Node.js and is provided purely for completeness.

##### `event.target`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * Type: <EventTarget> The `EventTarget` dispatching the event.

##### `event.timeStamp`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The millisecond timestamp when the `Event` object was created.

##### `event.type`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The event type identifier.

#### Class: `EventTarget`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The `EventTarget` class is now available through the global object.  
v14.5.0 | Added in: v14.5.0  
  
##### `eventTarget.addEventListener(type, listener[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.4.0 | add support for `signal` option.  
v14.5.0 | Added in: v14.5.0  
  
  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <EventListener>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `once` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, the listener is automatically removed when it is first invoked. **Default:** `false`.
    * `passive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, serves as a hint that the listener will not call the `Event` object's `preventDefault()` method. **Default:** `false`.
    * `capture` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Not directly used by Node.js. Added for API completeness. **Default:** `false`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> The listener will be removed when the given AbortSignal object's `abort()` method is called.

Adds a new handler for the `type` event. Any given `listener` is added only
once per `type` and per `capture` option value.

If the `once` option is `true`, the `listener` is removed after the next time
a `type` event is dispatched.

The `capture` option is not used by Node.js in any functional way other than
tracking registered event listeners per the `EventTarget` specification.
Specifically, the `capture` option is used as part of the key when registering
a `listener`. Any individual `listener` may be added once with `capture =
false`, and once with `capture = true`.

    
    
    function handler(event) {}
    
    const target = new EventTarget();
    target.addEventListener('foo', handler, { capture: true });  // first
    target.addEventListener('foo', handler, { capture: false }); // second
    
    // Removes the second instance of handler
    target.removeEventListener('foo', handler);
    
    // Removes the first instance of handler
    target.removeEventListener('foo', handler, { capture: true }); copy

##### `eventTarget.dispatchEvent(event)`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * `event` <Event>
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if either event's `cancelable` attribute value is false or its `preventDefault()` method was not invoked, otherwise `false`.

Dispatches the `event` to the list of handlers for `event.type`.

The registered event listeners is synchronously invoked in the order they were
registered.

##### `eventTarget.removeEventListener(type, listener[, options])`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <EventListener>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `capture` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Removes the `listener` from the list of handlers for event `type`.

#### Class: `CustomEvent`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | No longer experimental.  
v22.1.0, v20.13.0 | CustomEvent is now stable.  
v19.0.0 | No longer behind `--experimental-global-customevent` CLI flag.  
v18.7.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.7.0, v16.17.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

  * Extends: <Event>

The `CustomEvent` object is an adaptation of the [`CustomEvent` Web
API](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#customevent). Instances are created
internally by Node.js.

##### `event.detail`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.1.0, v20.13.0 | CustomEvent is now stable.  
v18.7.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.7.0, v16.17.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

  * Type: [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Returns custom data passed when initializing.

Read-only.

#### Class: `NodeEventTarget`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * Extends: <EventTarget>

The `NodeEventTarget` is a Node.js-specific extension to `EventTarget` that
emulates a subset of the `EventEmitter` API.

##### `nodeEventTarget.addListener(type, listener)`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <EventListener>

  * Returns: <EventTarget> this

Node.js-specific extension to the `EventTarget` class that emulates the
equivalent `EventEmitter` API. The only difference between `addListener()` and
`addEventListener()` is that `addListener()` will return a reference to the
`EventTarget`.

##### `nodeEventTarget.emit(type, arg)`#

Added in: v15.2.0

  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `arg` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if event listeners registered for the `type` exist, otherwise `false`.

Node.js-specific extension to the `EventTarget` class that dispatches the
`arg` to the list of handlers for `type`.

##### `nodeEventTarget.eventNames()`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Node.js-specific extension to the `EventTarget` class that returns an array of
event `type` names for which event listeners are registered.

##### `nodeEventTarget.listenerCount(type)`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Node.js-specific extension to the `EventTarget` class that returns the number
of event listeners registered for the `type`.

##### `nodeEventTarget.setMaxListeners(n)`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * `n` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Node.js-specific extension to the `EventTarget` class that sets the number of
max event listeners as `n`.

##### `nodeEventTarget.getMaxListeners()`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Node.js-specific extension to the `EventTarget` class that returns the number
of max event listeners.

##### `nodeEventTarget.off(type, listener[, options])`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <EventListener>

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

    * `capture` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
  * Returns: <EventTarget> this

Node.js-specific alias for `eventTarget.removeEventListener()`.

##### `nodeEventTarget.on(type, listener)`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <EventListener>

  * Returns: <EventTarget> this

Node.js-specific alias for `eventTarget.addEventListener()`.

##### `nodeEventTarget.once(type, listener)`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <EventListener>

  * Returns: <EventTarget> this

Node.js-specific extension to the `EventTarget` class that adds a `once`
listener for the given event `type`. This is equivalent to calling `on` with
the `once` option set to `true`.

##### `nodeEventTarget.removeAllListeners([type])`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

  * Returns: <EventTarget> this

Node.js-specific extension to the `EventTarget` class. If `type` is specified,
removes all registered listeners for `type`, otherwise removes all registered
listeners.

##### `nodeEventTarget.removeListener(type, listener[, options])`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <EventListener>

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

    * `capture` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
  * Returns: <EventTarget> this

Node.js-specific extension to the `EventTarget` class that removes the
`listener` for the given `type`. The only difference between
`removeListener()` and `removeEventListener()` is that `removeListener()` will
return a reference to the `EventTarget`.

## File system#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/fs.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/fs.js)

The `node:fs` module enables interacting with the file system in a way modeled
on standard POSIX functions.

To use the promise-based APIs:

    
    
    import * as fs from 'node:fs/promises';const fs = require('node:fs/promises');copy

To use the callback and sync APIs:

    
    
    import * as fs from 'node:fs';const fs = require('node:fs');copy

All file system operations have synchronous, callback, and promise-based
forms, and are accessible using both CommonJS syntax and ES6 Modules (ESM).

### Promise example#

Promise-based operations return a promise that is fulfilled when the
asynchronous operation is complete.

    
    
    import { unlink } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    try {
      await unlink('/tmp/hello');
      console.log('successfully deleted /tmp/hello');
    } catch (error) {
      console.error('there was an error:', error.message);
    }const { unlink } = require('node:fs/promises');
    
    (async function(path) {
      try {
        await unlink(path);
        console.log(`successfully deleted ${path}`);
      } catch (error) {
        console.error('there was an error:', error.message);
      }
    })('/tmp/hello');copy

### Callback example#

The callback form takes a completion callback function as its last argument
and invokes the operation asynchronously. The arguments passed to the
completion callback depend on the method, but the first argument is always
reserved for an exception. If the operation is completed successfully, then
the first argument is `null` or `undefined`.

    
    
    import { unlink } from 'node:fs';
    
    unlink('/tmp/hello', (err) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log('successfully deleted /tmp/hello');
    });const { unlink } = require('node:fs');
    
    unlink('/tmp/hello', (err) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log('successfully deleted /tmp/hello');
    });copy

The callback-based versions of the `node:fs` module APIs are preferable over
the use of the promise APIs when maximal performance (both in terms of
execution time and memory allocation) is required.

### Synchronous example#

The synchronous APIs block the Node.js event loop and further JavaScript
execution until the operation is complete. Exceptions are thrown immediately
and can be handled using `try…catch`, or can be allowed to bubble up.

    
    
    import { unlinkSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    try {
      unlinkSync('/tmp/hello');
      console.log('successfully deleted /tmp/hello');
    } catch (err) {
      // handle the error
    }const { unlinkSync } = require('node:fs');
    
    try {
      unlinkSync('/tmp/hello');
      console.log('successfully deleted /tmp/hello');
    } catch (err) {
      // handle the error
    }copy

### Promises API#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | Exposed as `require('fs/promises')`.  
v11.14.0, v10.17.0 | This API is no longer experimental.  
v10.1.0 | The API is accessible via `require('fs').promises` only.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
The `fs/promises` API provides asynchronous file system methods that return
promises.

The promise APIs use the underlying Node.js threadpool to perform file system
operations off the event loop thread. These operations are not synchronized or
threadsafe. Care must be taken when performing multiple concurrent
modifications on the same file or data corruption may occur.

#### Class: `FileHandle`#

Added in: v10.0.0

A <FileHandle> object is an object wrapper for a numeric file descriptor.

Instances of the <FileHandle> object are created by the `fsPromises.open()`
method.

All <FileHandle> objects are <EventEmitter>s.

If a <FileHandle> is not closed using the `filehandle.close()` method, it will
try to automatically close the file descriptor and emit a process warning,
helping to prevent memory leaks. Please do not rely on this behavior because
it can be unreliable and the file may not be closed. Instead, always
explicitly close <FileHandle>s. Node.js may change this behavior in the
future.

##### Event: `'close'`#

Added in: v15.4.0

The `'close'` event is emitted when the <FileHandle> has been closed and can
no longer be used.

##### `filehandle.appendFile(data[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.1.0, v20.10.0 | The `flush` option is now supported.  
v15.14.0, v14.18.0 | The `data` argument supports `AsyncIterable`, `Iterable`, and `Stream`.  
v14.0.0 | The `data` parameter won't coerce unsupported input to strings anymore.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface) | [<Iterable>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterable_protocol) | <Stream>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) allows aborting an in-progress writeFile. **Default:** `undefined`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Alias of `filehandle.writeFile()`.

When operating on file handles, the mode cannot be changed from what it was
set to with `fsPromises.open()`. Therefore, this is equivalent to
`filehandle.writeFile()`.

##### `filehandle.chmod(mode)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the file mode bit mask.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Modifies the permissions on the file. See
[`chmod(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/chmod.2.html).

##### `filehandle.chown(uid, gid)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `uid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The file's new owner's user id.
  * `gid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The file's new group's group id.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Changes the ownership of the file. A wrapper for
[`chown(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/chown.2.html).

##### `filehandle.close()`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Closes the file handle after waiting for any pending operation on the handle
to complete.

    
    
    import { open } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    let filehandle;
    try {
      filehandle = await open('thefile.txt', 'r');
    } finally {
      await filehandle?.close();
    } copy

##### `filehandle.createReadStream([options])`#

Added in: v16.11.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `null`
    * `autoClose` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `true`
    * `emitClose` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `true`
    * `start` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `end` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `Infinity`
    * `highWaterMark` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `64 * 1024`
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) **Default:** `undefined`
  * Returns: <fs.ReadStream>

`options` can include `start` and `end` values to read a range of bytes from
the file instead of the entire file. Both `start` and `end` are inclusive and
start counting at 0, allowed values are in the [0,
[`Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number/MAX_SAFE_INTEGER)]
range. If `start` is omitted or `undefined`, `filehandle.createReadStream()`
reads sequentially from the current file position. The `encoding` can be any
one of those accepted by <Buffer>.

If the `FileHandle` points to a character device that only supports blocking
reads (such as keyboard or sound card), read operations do not finish until
data is available. This can prevent the process from exiting and the stream
from closing naturally.

By default, the stream will emit a `'close'` event after it has been
destroyed. Set the `emitClose` option to `false` to change this behavior.

    
    
    import { open } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    const fd = await open('/dev/input/event0');
    // Create a stream from some character device.
    const stream = fd.createReadStream();
    setTimeout(() => {
      stream.close(); // This may not close the stream.
      // Artificially marking end-of-stream, as if the underlying resource had
      // indicated end-of-file by itself, allows the stream to close.
      // This does not cancel pending read operations, and if there is such an
      // operation, the process may still not be able to exit successfully
      // until it finishes.
      stream.push(null);
      stream.read(0);
    }, 100); copy

If `autoClose` is false, then the file descriptor won't be closed, even if
there's an error. It is the application's responsibility to close it and make
sure there's no file descriptor leak. If `autoClose` is set to true (default
behavior), on `'error'` or `'end'` the file descriptor will be closed
automatically.

An example to read the last 10 bytes of a file which is 100 bytes long:

    
    
    import { open } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    const fd = await open('sample.txt');
    fd.createReadStream({ start: 90, end: 99 }); copy

##### `filehandle.createWriteStream([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0, v20.10.0 | The `flush` option is now supported.  
v16.11.0 | Added in: v16.11.0  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `autoClose` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `true`
    * `emitClose` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `true`
    * `start` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `16384`
    * `flush` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, the underlying file descriptor is flushed prior to closing it. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: <fs.WriteStream>

`options` may also include a `start` option to allow writing data at some
position past the beginning of the file, allowed values are in the [0,
[`Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number/MAX_SAFE_INTEGER)]
range. Modifying a file rather than replacing it may require the `flags`
`open` option to be set to `r+` rather than the default `r`. The `encoding`
can be any one of those accepted by <Buffer>.

If `autoClose` is set to true (default behavior) on `'error'` or `'finish'`
the file descriptor will be closed automatically. If `autoClose` is false,
then the file descriptor won't be closed, even if there's an error. It is the
application's responsibility to close it and make sure there's no file
descriptor leak.

By default, the stream will emit a `'close'` event after it has been
destroyed. Set the `emitClose` option to `false` to change this behavior.

##### `filehandle.datasync()`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Forces all currently queued I/O operations associated with the file to the
operating system's synchronized I/O completion state. Refer to the POSIX
[`fdatasync(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/fdatasync.2.html)
documentation for details.

Unlike `filehandle.sync` this method does not flush modified metadata.

##### `filehandle.fd`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The numeric file descriptor managed by the <FileHandle> object.

##### `filehandle.read(buffer, offset, length, position)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0 | Accepts bigint values as `position`.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) A buffer that will be filled with the file data read.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The location in the buffer at which to start filling. **Default:** `0`
  * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes to read. **Default:** `buffer.byteLength - offset`
  * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) The location where to begin reading data from the file. If `null` or `-1`, data will be read from the current file position, and the position will be updated. If `position` is a non-negative integer, the current file position will remain unchanged. **Default:** : `null`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills upon success with an object with two properties: 
    * `bytesRead` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes read
    * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) A reference to the passed in `buffer` argument.

Reads data from the file and stores that in the given buffer.

If the file is not modified concurrently, the end-of-file is reached when the
number of bytes read is zero.

##### `filehandle.read([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0 | Accepts bigint values as `position`.  
v13.11.0, v12.17.0 | Added in: v13.11.0, v12.17.0  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) A buffer that will be filled with the file data read. **Default:** `Buffer.alloc(16384)`
    * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The location in the buffer at which to start filling. **Default:** `0`
    * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes to read. **Default:** `buffer.byteLength - offset`
    * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) The location where to begin reading data from the file. If `null` or `-1`, data will be read from the current file position, and the position will be updated. If `position` is a non-negative integer, the current file position will remain unchanged. **Default:** : `null`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills upon success with an object with two properties: 
    * `bytesRead` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes read
    * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) A reference to the passed in `buffer` argument.

Reads data from the file and stores that in the given buffer.

If the file is not modified concurrently, the end-of-file is reached when the
number of bytes read is zero.

##### `filehandle.read(buffer[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0 | Accepts bigint values as `position`.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) A buffer that will be filled with the file data read.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The location in the buffer at which to start filling. **Default:** `0`
    * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes to read. **Default:** `buffer.byteLength - offset`
    * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) The location where to begin reading data from the file. If `null` or `-1`, data will be read from the current file position, and the position will be updated. If `position` is a non-negative integer, the current file position will remain unchanged. **Default:** : `null`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills upon success with an object with two properties: 
    * `bytesRead` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes read
    * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) A reference to the passed in `buffer` argument.

Reads data from the file and stores that in the given buffer.

If the file is not modified concurrently, the end-of-file is reached when the
number of bytes read is zero.

##### `filehandle.readableWebStream()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.8.0 | Removed option to create a 'bytes' stream. Streams are now always 'bytes' streams.  
v20.0.0, v18.17.0 | Added option to create a 'bytes' stream.  
v17.0.0 | Added in: v17.0.0  
  
Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * Returns: <ReadableStream>

Returns a byte-oriented `ReadableStream` that may be used to read the file's
contents.

An error will be thrown if this method is called more than once or is called
after the `FileHandle` is closed or closing.

    
    
    import {
      open,
    } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    const file = await open('./some/file/to/read');
    
    for await (const chunk of file.readableWebStream())
      console.log(chunk);
    
    await file.close();const {
      open,
    } = require('node:fs/promises');
    
    (async () => {
      const file = await open('./some/file/to/read');
    
      for await (const chunk of file.readableWebStream())
        console.log(chunk);
    
      await file.close();
    })();copy

While the `ReadableStream` will read the file to completion, it will not close
the `FileHandle` automatically. User code must still call the
`fileHandle.close()` method.

##### `filehandle.readFile(options)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows aborting an in-progress readFile
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills upon a successful read with the contents of the file. If no encoding is specified (using `options.encoding`), the data is returned as a <Buffer> object. Otherwise, the data will be a string.

Asynchronously reads the entire contents of a file.

If `options` is a string, then it specifies the `encoding`.

The <FileHandle> has to support reading.

If one or more `filehandle.read()` calls are made on a file handle and then a
`filehandle.readFile()` call is made, the data will be read from the current
position till the end of the file. It doesn't always read from the beginning
of the file.

##### `filehandle.readLines([options])`#

Added in: v18.11.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `null`
    * `autoClose` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `true`
    * `emitClose` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `true`
    * `start` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `end` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `Infinity`
    * `highWaterMark` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `64 * 1024`
  * Returns: <readline.InterfaceConstructor>

Convenience method to create a `readline` interface and stream over the file.
See `filehandle.createReadStream()` for the options.

    
    
    import { open } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    const file = await open('./some/file/to/read');
    
    for await (const line of file.readLines()) {
      console.log(line);
    }const { open } = require('node:fs/promises');
    
    (async () => {
      const file = await open('./some/file/to/read');
    
      for await (const line of file.readLines()) {
        console.log(line);
      }
    })();copy

##### `filehandle.readv(buffers[, position])`#

Added in: v13.13.0, v12.17.0

  * `buffers` <Buffer[]> | [<TypedArray[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) The offset from the beginning of the file where the data should be read from. If `position` is not a `number`, the data will be read from the current position. **Default:** `null`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills upon success an object containing two properties: 
    * `bytesRead` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the number of bytes read
    * `buffers` <Buffer[]> | [<TypedArray[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) property containing a reference to the `buffers` input.

Read from a file and write to an array of
[<ArrayBufferView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/ArrayBufferView)s

##### `filehandle.stat([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.5.0 | Accepts an additional `options` object to specify whether the numeric values returned should be bigint.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `bigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether the numeric values in the returned <fs.Stats> object should be `bigint`. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with an <fs.Stats> for the file.

##### `filehandle.sync()`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Request that all data for the open file descriptor is flushed to the storage
device. The specific implementation is operating system and device specific.
Refer to the POSIX [`fsync(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/fsync.2.html) documentation for more detail.

##### `filehandle.truncate(len)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `len` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Truncates the file.

If the file was larger than `len` bytes, only the first `len` bytes will be
retained in the file.

The following example retains only the first four bytes of the file:

    
    
    import { open } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    let filehandle = null;
    try {
      filehandle = await open('temp.txt', 'r+');
      await filehandle.truncate(4);
    } finally {
      await filehandle?.close();
    } copy

If the file previously was shorter than `len` bytes, it is extended, and the
extended part is filled with null bytes (`'\0'`):

If `len` is negative then `0` will be used.

##### `filehandle.utimes(atime, mtime)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `atime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)
  * `mtime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Change the file system timestamps of the object referenced by the <FileHandle>
then fulfills the promise with no arguments upon success.

##### `filehandle.write(buffer, offset[, length[, position]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter won't coerce unsupported input to buffers anymore.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The start position from within `buffer` where the data to write begins.
  * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes from `buffer` to write. **Default:** `buffer.byteLength - offset`
  * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) The offset from the beginning of the file where the data from `buffer` should be written. If `position` is not a `number`, the data will be written at the current position. See the POSIX [`pwrite(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/pwrite.2.html) documentation for more detail. **Default:** `null`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Write `buffer` to the file.

The promise is fulfilled with an object containing two properties:

  * `bytesWritten` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the number of bytes written
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) a reference to the `buffer` written.

It is unsafe to use `filehandle.write()` multiple times on the same file
without waiting for the promise to be fulfilled (or rejected). For this
scenario, use `filehandle.createWriteStream()`.

On Linux, positional writes do not work when the file is opened in append
mode. The kernel ignores the position argument and always appends the data to
the end of the file.

##### `filehandle.write(buffer[, options])`#

Added in: v18.3.0, v16.17.0

  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`
    * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `buffer.byteLength - offset`
    * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `null`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Write `buffer` to the file.

Similar to the above `filehandle.write` function, this version takes an
optional `options` object. If no `options` object is specified, it will
default with the above values.

##### `filehandle.write(string[, position[, encoding]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | The `string` parameter won't coerce unsupported input to strings anymore.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `string` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) The offset from the beginning of the file where the data from `string` should be written. If `position` is not a `number` the data will be written at the current position. See the POSIX [`pwrite(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/pwrite.2.html) documentation for more detail. **Default:** `null`
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The expected string encoding. **Default:** `'utf8'`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Write `string` to the file. If `string` is not a string, the promise is
rejected with an error.

The promise is fulfilled with an object containing two properties:

  * `bytesWritten` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the number of bytes written
  * `buffer` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) a reference to the `string` written.

It is unsafe to use `filehandle.write()` multiple times on the same file
without waiting for the promise to be fulfilled (or rejected). For this
scenario, use `filehandle.createWriteStream()`.

On Linux, positional writes do not work when the file is opened in append
mode. The kernel ignores the position argument and always appends the data to
the end of the file.

##### `filehandle.writeFile(data, options)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.14.0, v14.18.0 | The `data` argument supports `AsyncIterable`, `Iterable`, and `Stream`.  
v14.0.0 | The `data` parameter won't coerce unsupported input to strings anymore.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface) | [<Iterable>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterable_protocol) | <Stream>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) The expected character encoding when `data` is a string. **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) allows aborting an in-progress writeFile. **Default:** `undefined`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Asynchronously writes data to a file, replacing the file if it already exists.
`data` can be a string, a buffer, an
[<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-
interface), or an [<Iterable>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterable_protocol)
object. The promise is fulfilled with no arguments upon success.

If `options` is a string, then it specifies the `encoding`.

The <FileHandle> has to support writing.

It is unsafe to use `filehandle.writeFile()` multiple times on the same file
without waiting for the promise to be fulfilled (or rejected).

If one or more `filehandle.write()` calls are made on a file handle and then a
`filehandle.writeFile()` call is made, the data will be written from the
current position till the end of the file. It doesn't always write from the
beginning of the file.

##### `filehandle.writev(buffers[, position])`#

Added in: v12.9.0

  * `buffers` <Buffer[]> | [<TypedArray[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) The offset from the beginning of the file where the data from `buffers` should be written. If `position` is not a `number`, the data will be written at the current position. **Default:** `null`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Write an array of [<ArrayBufferView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/ArrayBufferView)s to the file.

The promise is fulfilled with an object containing a two properties:

  * `bytesWritten` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the number of bytes written
  * `buffers` <Buffer[]> | [<TypedArray[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) a reference to the `buffers` input.

It is unsafe to call `writev()` multiple times on the same file without
waiting for the promise to be fulfilled (or rejected).

On Linux, positional writes don't work when the file is opened in append mode.
The kernel ignores the position argument and always appends the data to the
end of the file.

##### `filehandle[Symbol.asyncDispose]()`#

Added in: v20.4.0, v18.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

An alias for `filehandle.close()`.

#### `fsPromises.access(path[, mode])`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `fs.constants.F_OK`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Tests a user's permissions for the file or directory specified by `path`. The `mode` argument is an optional integer that specifies the accessibility checks to be performed. `mode` should be either the value `fs.constants.F_OK` or a mask consisting of the bitwise OR of any of `fs.constants.R_OK`, `fs.constants.W_OK`, and `fs.constants.X_OK` (e.g. `fs.constants.W_OK | fs.constants.R_OK`). Check File access constants for possible values of `mode`.

If the accessibility check is successful, the promise is fulfilled with no
value. If any of the accessibility checks fail, the promise is rejected with
an [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) object. The following
example checks if the file `/etc/passwd` can be read and written by the
current process.

    
    
    import { access, constants } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    try {
      await access('/etc/passwd', constants.R_OK | constants.W_OK);
      console.log('can access');
    } catch {
      console.error('cannot access');
    } copy

Using `fsPromises.access()` to check for the accessibility of a file before
calling `fsPromises.open()` is not recommended. Doing so introduces a race
condition, since other processes may change the file's state between the two
calls. Instead, user code should open/read/write the file directly and handle
the error raised if the file is not accessible.

#### `fsPromises.appendFile(path, data[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.1.0, v20.10.0 | The `flush` option is now supported.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL> | <FileHandle> filename or <FileHandle>
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0o666`
    * `flag` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See support of file system `flags`. **Default:** `'a'`.
    * `flush` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, the underlying file descriptor is flushed prior to closing it. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Asynchronously append data to a file, creating the file if it does not yet
exist. `data` can be a string or a <Buffer>.

If `options` is a string, then it specifies the `encoding`.

The `mode` option only affects the newly created file. See `fs.open()` for
more details.

The `path` may be specified as a <FileHandle> that has been opened for
appending (using `fsPromises.open()`).

#### `fsPromises.chmod(path, mode)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `mode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Changes the permissions of a file.

#### `fsPromises.chown(path, uid, gid)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `uid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `gid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Changes the ownership of a file.

#### `fsPromises.copyFile(src, dest[, mode])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | Changed `flags` argument to `mode` and imposed stricter type validation.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `src` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL> source filename to copy
  * `dest` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL> destination filename of the copy operation
  * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Optional modifiers that specify the behavior of the copy operation. It is possible to create a mask consisting of the bitwise OR of two or more values (e.g. `fs.constants.COPYFILE_EXCL | fs.constants.COPYFILE_FICLONE`) **Default:** `0`. 
    * `fs.constants.COPYFILE_EXCL`: The copy operation will fail if `dest` already exists.
    * `fs.constants.COPYFILE_FICLONE`: The copy operation will attempt to create a copy-on-write reflink. If the platform does not support copy-on-write, then a fallback copy mechanism is used.
    * `fs.constants.COPYFILE_FICLONE_FORCE`: The copy operation will attempt to create a copy-on-write reflink. If the platform does not support copy-on-write, then the operation will fail.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Asynchronously copies `src` to `dest`. By default, `dest` is overwritten if it
already exists.

No guarantees are made about the atomicity of the copy operation. If an error
occurs after the destination file has been opened for writing, an attempt will
be made to remove the destination.

    
    
    import { copyFile, constants } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    try {
      await copyFile('source.txt', 'destination.txt');
      console.log('source.txt was copied to destination.txt');
    } catch {
      console.error('The file could not be copied');
    }
    
    // By using COPYFILE_EXCL, the operation will fail if destination.txt exists.
    try {
      await copyFile('source.txt', 'destination.txt', constants.COPYFILE_EXCL);
      console.log('source.txt was copied to destination.txt');
    } catch {
      console.error('The file could not be copied');
    } copy

#### `fsPromises.cp(src, dest[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.3.0 | This API is no longer experimental.  
v20.1.0, v18.17.0 | Accept an additional `mode` option to specify the copy behavior as the `mode` argument of `fs.copyFile()`.  
v17.6.0, v16.15.0 | Accepts an additional `verbatimSymlinks` option to specify whether to perform path resolution for symlinks.  
v16.7.0 | Added in: v16.7.0  
  
  * `src` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> source path to copy.
  * `dest` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> destination path to copy to.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `dereference` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) dereference symlinks. **Default:** `false`.
    * `errorOnExist` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) when `force` is `false`, and the destination exists, throw an error. **Default:** `false`.
    * `filter` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Function to filter copied files/directories. Return `true` to copy the item, `false` to ignore it. When ignoring a directory, all of its contents will be skipped as well. Can also return a `Promise` that resolves to `true` or `false` **Default:** `undefined`. 
      * `src` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) source path to copy.
      * `dest` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) destination path to copy to.
      * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) A value that is coercible to `boolean` or a `Promise` that fulfils with such value.
    * `force` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) overwrite existing file or directory. The copy operation will ignore errors if you set this to false and the destination exists. Use the `errorOnExist` option to change this behavior. **Default:** `true`.
    * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) modifiers for copy operation. **Default:** `0`. See `mode` flag of `fsPromises.copyFile()`.
    * `preserveTimestamps` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true` timestamps from `src` will be preserved. **Default:** `false`.
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) copy directories recursively **Default:** `false`
    * `verbatimSymlinks` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, path resolution for symlinks will be skipped. **Default:** `false`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Asynchronously copies the entire directory structure from `src` to `dest`,
including subdirectories and files.

When copying a directory to another directory, globs are not supported and
behavior is similar to `cp dir1/ dir2/`.

#### `fsPromises.glob(pattern[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.7.0 | Add support for `exclude` option to accept glob patterns.  
v22.2.0 | Add support for `withFileTypes` as an option.  
v22.0.0 | Added in: v22.0.0  
  
Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `pattern` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `cwd` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) current working directory. **Default:** `process.cwd()`
    * `exclude` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Function to filter out files/directories or a list of glob patterns to be excluded. If a function is provided, return `true` to exclude the item, `false` to include it. **Default:** `undefined`.
    * `withFileTypes` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the glob should return paths as Dirents, `false` otherwise. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<AsyncIterator>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterator-interface) An AsyncIterator that yields the paths of files that match the pattern.

    
    
    import { glob } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    for await (const entry of glob('**/*.js'))
      console.log(entry);const { glob } = require('node:fs/promises');
    
    (async () => {
      for await (const entry of glob('**/*.js'))
        console.log(entry);
    })();copy

#### `fsPromises.lchmod(path, mode)`#

Deprecated since: v10.0.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Changes the permissions on a symbolic link.

This method is only implemented on macOS.

#### `fsPromises.lchown(path, uid, gid)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.6.0 | This API is no longer deprecated.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `uid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `gid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Changes the ownership on a symbolic link.

#### `fsPromises.lutimes(path, atime, mtime)`#

Added in: v14.5.0, v12.19.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `atime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)
  * `mtime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Changes the access and modification times of a file in the same way as
`fsPromises.utimes()`, with the difference that if the path refers to a
symbolic link, then the link is not dereferenced: instead, the timestamps of
the symbolic link itself are changed.

#### `fsPromises.link(existingPath, newPath)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `existingPath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `newPath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Creates a new link from the `existingPath` to the `newPath`. See the POSIX
[`link(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/link.2.html) documentation
for more detail.

#### `fsPromises.lstat(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.5.0 | Accepts an additional `options` object to specify whether the numeric values returned should be bigint.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `bigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether the numeric values in the returned <fs.Stats> object should be `bigint`. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with the <fs.Stats> object for the given symbolic link `path`.

Equivalent to `fsPromises.stat()` unless `path` refers to a symbolic link, in
which case the link itself is stat-ed, not the file that it refers to. Refer
to the POSIX [`lstat(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/lstat.2.html)
document for more detail.

#### `fsPromises.mkdir(path[, options])`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`
    * `mode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Not supported on Windows. **Default:** `0o777`.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Upon success, fulfills with `undefined` if `recursive` is `false`, or the first directory path created if `recursive` is `true`.

Asynchronously creates a directory.

The optional `options` argument can be an integer specifying `mode`
(permission and sticky bits), or an object with a `mode` property and a
`recursive` property indicating whether parent directories should be created.
Calling `fsPromises.mkdir()` when `path` is a directory that exists results in
a rejection only when `recursive` is false.

    
    
    import { mkdir } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    try {
      const projectFolder = new URL('./test/project/', import.meta.url);
      const createDir = await mkdir(projectFolder, { recursive: true });
    
      console.log(`created ${createDir}`);
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(err.message);
    }const { mkdir } = require('node:fs/promises');
    const { join } = require('node:path');
    
    async function makeDirectory() {
      const projectFolder = join(__dirname, 'test', 'project');
      const dirCreation = await mkdir(projectFolder, { recursive: true });
    
      console.log(dirCreation);
      return dirCreation;
    }
    
    makeDirectory().catch(console.error);copy

#### `fsPromises.mkdtemp(prefix[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.6.0, v18.19.0 | The `prefix` parameter now accepts buffers and URL.  
v16.5.0, v14.18.0 | The `prefix` parameter now accepts an empty string.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `prefix` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with a string containing the file system path of the newly created temporary directory.

Creates a unique temporary directory. A unique directory name is generated by
appending six random characters to the end of the provided `prefix`. Due to
platform inconsistencies, avoid trailing `X` characters in `prefix`. Some
platforms, notably the BSDs, can return more than six random characters, and
replace trailing `X` characters in `prefix` with random characters.

The optional `options` argument can be a string specifying an encoding, or an
object with an `encoding` property specifying the character encoding to use.

    
    
    import { mkdtemp } from 'node:fs/promises';
    import { join } from 'node:path';
    import { tmpdir } from 'node:os';
    
    try {
      await mkdtemp(join(tmpdir(), 'foo-'));
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(err);
    } copy

The `fsPromises.mkdtemp()` method will append the six randomly selected
characters directly to the `prefix` string. For instance, given a directory
`/tmp`, if the intention is to create a temporary directory _within_ `/tmp`,
the `prefix` must end with a trailing platform-specific path separator
(`require('node:path').sep`).

#### `fsPromises.open(path, flags[, mode])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.1.0 | The `flags` argument is now optional and defaults to `'r'`.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `flags` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) See support of file system `flags`. **Default:** `'r'`.
  * `mode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the file mode (permission and sticky bits) if the file is created. **Default:** `0o666` (readable and writable)
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with a <FileHandle> object.

Opens a <FileHandle>.

Refer to the POSIX [`open(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/open.2.html) documentation for more detail.

Some characters (`< > : " / \ | ? *`) are reserved under Windows as documented by [Naming Files, Paths, and Namespaces](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/FileIO/naming-a-file). Under NTFS, if the filename contains a colon, Node.js will open a file system stream, as described by [this MSDN page](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/FileIO/using-streams).

#### `fsPromises.opendir(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.1.0, v18.17.0 | Added `recursive` option.  
v13.1.0, v12.16.0 | The `bufferSize` option was introduced.  
v12.12.0 | Added in: v12.12.0  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `bufferSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of directory entries that are buffered internally when reading from the directory. Higher values lead to better performance but higher memory usage. **Default:** `32`
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Resolved `Dir` will be an [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface) containing all sub files and directories. **Default:** `false`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with an <fs.Dir>.

Asynchronously open a directory for iterative scanning. See the POSIX
[`opendir(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/opendir.3.html)
documentation for more detail.

Creates an <fs.Dir>, which contains all further functions for reading from and
cleaning up the directory.

The `encoding` option sets the encoding for the `path` while opening the
directory and subsequent read operations.

Example using async iteration:

    
    
    import { opendir } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    try {
      const dir = await opendir('./');
      for await (const dirent of dir)
        console.log(dirent.name);
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(err);
    } copy

When using the async iterator, the <fs.Dir> object will be automatically
closed after the iterator exits.

#### `fsPromises.readdir(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.1.0, v18.17.0 | Added `recursive` option.  
v10.11.0 | New option `withFileTypes` was added.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `withFileTypes` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, reads the contents of a directory recursively. In recursive mode, it will list all files, sub files, and directories. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with an array of the names of the files in the directory excluding `'.'` and `'..'`.

Reads the contents of a directory.

The optional `options` argument can be a string specifying an encoding, or an
object with an `encoding` property specifying the character encoding to use
for the filenames. If the `encoding` is set to `'buffer'`, the filenames
returned will be passed as <Buffer> objects.

If `options.withFileTypes` is set to `true`, the returned array will contain
<fs.Dirent> objects.

    
    
    import { readdir } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    try {
      const files = await readdir(path);
      for (const file of files)
        console.log(file);
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(err);
    } copy

#### `fsPromises.readFile(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.2.0, v14.17.0 | The options argument may include an AbortSignal to abort an ongoing readFile request.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL> | <FileHandle> filename or `FileHandle`
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
    * `flag` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See support of file system `flags`. **Default:** `'r'`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows aborting an in-progress readFile
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with the contents of the file.

Asynchronously reads the entire contents of a file.

If no encoding is specified (using `options.encoding`), the data is returned
as a <Buffer> object. Otherwise, the data will be a string.

If `options` is a string, then it specifies the encoding.

When the `path` is a directory, the behavior of `fsPromises.readFile()` is
platform-specific. On macOS, Linux, and Windows, the promise will be rejected
with an error. On FreeBSD, a representation of the directory's contents will
be returned.

An example of reading a `package.json` file located in the same directory of
the running code:

    
    
    import { readFile } from 'node:fs/promises';
    try {
      const filePath = new URL('./package.json', import.meta.url);
      const contents = await readFile(filePath, { encoding: 'utf8' });
      console.log(contents);
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(err.message);
    }const { readFile } = require('node:fs/promises');
    const { resolve } = require('node:path');
    async function logFile() {
      try {
        const filePath = resolve('./package.json');
        const contents = await readFile(filePath, { encoding: 'utf8' });
        console.log(contents);
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(err.message);
      }
    }
    logFile();copy

It is possible to abort an ongoing `readFile` using an <AbortSignal>. If a
request is aborted the promise returned is rejected with an `AbortError`:

    
    
    import { readFile } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    try {
      const controller = new AbortController();
      const { signal } = controller;
      const promise = readFile(fileName, { signal });
    
      // Abort the request before the promise settles.
      controller.abort();
    
      await promise;
    } catch (err) {
      // When a request is aborted - err is an AbortError
      console.error(err);
    } copy

Aborting an ongoing request does not abort individual operating system
requests but rather the internal buffering `fs.readFile` performs.

Any specified <FileHandle> has to support reading.

#### `fsPromises.readlink(path[, options])`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with the `linkString` upon success.

Reads the contents of the symbolic link referred to by `path`. See the POSIX
[`readlink(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/readlink.2.html)
documentation for more detail. The promise is fulfilled with the `linkString`
upon success.

The optional `options` argument can be a string specifying an encoding, or an
object with an `encoding` property specifying the character encoding to use
for the link path returned. If the `encoding` is set to `'buffer'`, the link
path returned will be passed as a <Buffer> object.

#### `fsPromises.realpath(path[, options])`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with the resolved path upon success.

Determines the actual location of `path` using the same semantics as the
`fs.realpath.native()` function.

Only paths that can be converted to UTF8 strings are supported.

The optional `options` argument can be a string specifying an encoding, or an
object with an `encoding` property specifying the character encoding to use
for the path. If the `encoding` is set to `'buffer'`, the path returned will
be passed as a <Buffer> object.

On Linux, when Node.js is linked against musl libc, the procfs file system
must be mounted on `/proc` in order for this function to work. Glibc does not
have this restriction.

#### `fsPromises.rename(oldPath, newPath)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `oldPath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `newPath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Renames `oldPath` to `newPath`.

#### `fsPromises.rmdir(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | Using `fsPromises.rmdir(path, { recursive: true })` on a `path` that is a file is no longer permitted and results in an `ENOENT` error on Windows and an `ENOTDIR` error on POSIX.  
v16.0.0 | Using `fsPromises.rmdir(path, { recursive: true })` on a `path` that does not exist is no longer permitted and results in a `ENOENT` error.  
v16.0.0 | The `recursive` option is deprecated, using it triggers a deprecation warning.  
v14.14.0 | The `recursive` option is deprecated, use `fsPromises.rm` instead.  
v13.3.0, v12.16.0 | The `maxBusyTries` option is renamed to `maxRetries`, and its default is 0. The `emfileWait` option has been removed, and `EMFILE` errors use the same retry logic as other errors. The `retryDelay` option is now supported. `ENFILE` errors are now retried.  
v12.10.0 | The `recursive`, `maxBusyTries`, and `emfileWait` options are now supported.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `maxRetries` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) If an `EBUSY`, `EMFILE`, `ENFILE`, `ENOTEMPTY`, or `EPERM` error is encountered, Node.js retries the operation with a linear backoff wait of `retryDelay` milliseconds longer on each try. This option represents the number of retries. This option is ignored if the `recursive` option is not `true`. **Default:** `0`.
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, perform a recursive directory removal. In recursive mode, operations are retried on failure. **Default:** `false`. **Deprecated.**
    * `retryDelay` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The amount of time in milliseconds to wait between retries. This option is ignored if the `recursive` option is not `true`. **Default:** `100`.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Removes the directory identified by `path`.

Using `fsPromises.rmdir()` on a file (not a directory) results in the promise
being rejected with an `ENOENT` error on Windows and an `ENOTDIR` error on
POSIX.

To get a behavior similar to the `rm -rf` Unix command, use `fsPromises.rm()`
with options `{ recursive: true, force: true }`.

#### `fsPromises.rm(path[, options])`#

Added in: v14.14.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `force` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, exceptions will be ignored if `path` does not exist. **Default:** `false`.
    * `maxRetries` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) If an `EBUSY`, `EMFILE`, `ENFILE`, `ENOTEMPTY`, or `EPERM` error is encountered, Node.js will retry the operation with a linear backoff wait of `retryDelay` milliseconds longer on each try. This option represents the number of retries. This option is ignored if the `recursive` option is not `true`. **Default:** `0`.
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, perform a recursive directory removal. In recursive mode operations are retried on failure. **Default:** `false`.
    * `retryDelay` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The amount of time in milliseconds to wait between retries. This option is ignored if the `recursive` option is not `true`. **Default:** `100`.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Removes files and directories (modeled on the standard POSIX `rm` utility).

#### `fsPromises.stat(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.5.0 | Accepts an additional `options` object to specify whether the numeric values returned should be bigint.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `bigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether the numeric values in the returned <fs.Stats> object should be `bigint`. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with the <fs.Stats> object for the given `path`.

#### `fsPromises.statfs(path[, options])`#

Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `bigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether the numeric values in the returned <fs.StatFs> object should be `bigint`. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with the <fs.StatFs> object for the given `path`.

#### `fsPromises.symlink(target, path[, type])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | If the `type` argument is `null` or omitted, Node.js will autodetect `target` type and automatically select `dir` or `file`.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `target` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Creates a symbolic link.

The `type` argument is only used on Windows platforms and can be one of
`'dir'`, `'file'`, or `'junction'`. If the `type` argument is `null`, Node.js
will autodetect `target` type and use `'file'` or `'dir'`. If the `target`
does not exist, `'file'` will be used. Windows junction points require the
destination path to be absolute. When using `'junction'`, the `target`
argument will automatically be normalized to absolute path. Junction points on
NTFS volumes can only point to directories.

#### `fsPromises.truncate(path[, len])`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `len` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Truncates (shortens or extends the length) of the content at `path` to `len`
bytes.

#### `fsPromises.unlink(path)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

If `path` refers to a symbolic link, then the link is removed without
affecting the file or directory to which that link refers. If the `path`
refers to a file path that is not a symbolic link, the file is deleted. See
the POSIX [`unlink(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/unlink.2.html)
documentation for more detail.

#### `fsPromises.utimes(path, atime, mtime)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `atime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)
  * `mtime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Change the file system timestamps of the object referenced by `path`.

The `atime` and `mtime` arguments follow these rules:

  * Values can be either numbers representing Unix epoch time, `Date`s, or a numeric string like `'123456789.0'`.
  * If the value can not be converted to a number, or is `NaN`, `Infinity`, or `-Infinity`, an `Error` will be thrown.

#### `fsPromises.watch(filename[, options])`#

Added in: v15.9.0, v14.18.0

  * `filename` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `persistent` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Indicates whether the process should continue to run as long as files are being watched. **Default:** `true`.
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Indicates whether all subdirectories should be watched, or only the current directory. This applies when a directory is specified, and only on supported platforms (See caveats). **Default:** `false`.
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Specifies the character encoding to be used for the filename passed to the listener. **Default:** `'utf8'`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> An <AbortSignal> used to signal when the watcher should stop.
  * Returns: [<AsyncIterator>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterator-interface) of objects with the properties: 
    * `eventType` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The type of change
    * `filename` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) The name of the file changed.

Returns an async iterator that watches for changes on `filename`, where
`filename` is either a file or a directory.

    
    
    const { watch } = require('node:fs/promises');
    
    const ac = new AbortController();
    const { signal } = ac;
    setTimeout(() => ac.abort(), 10000);
    
    (async () => {
      try {
        const watcher = watch(__filename, { signal });
        for await (const event of watcher)
          console.log(event);
      } catch (err) {
        if (err.name === 'AbortError')
          return;
        throw err;
      }
    })(); copy

On most platforms, `'rename'` is emitted whenever a filename appears or
disappears in the directory.

All the caveats for `fs.watch()` also apply to `fsPromises.watch()`.

#### `fsPromises.writeFile(file, data[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0, v20.10.0 | The `flush` option is now supported.  
v15.14.0, v14.18.0 | The `data` argument supports `AsyncIterable`, `Iterable`, and `Stream`.  
v15.2.0, v14.17.0 | The options argument may include an AbortSignal to abort an ongoing writeFile request.  
v14.0.0 | The `data` parameter won't coerce unsupported input to strings anymore.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `file` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL> | <FileHandle> filename or `FileHandle`
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface) | [<Iterable>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterable_protocol) | <Stream>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0o666`
    * `flag` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See support of file system `flags`. **Default:** `'w'`.
    * `flush` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If all data is successfully written to the file, and `flush` is `true`, `filehandle.sync()` is used to flush the data. **Default:** `false`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows aborting an in-progress writeFile
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Asynchronously writes data to a file, replacing the file if it already exists.
`data` can be a string, a buffer, an
[<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-
interface), or an [<Iterable>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterable_protocol)
object.

The `encoding` option is ignored if `data` is a buffer.

If `options` is a string, then it specifies the encoding.

The `mode` option only affects the newly created file. See `fs.open()` for
more details.

Any specified <FileHandle> has to support writing.

It is unsafe to use `fsPromises.writeFile()` multiple times on the same file
without waiting for the promise to be settled.

Similarly to `fsPromises.readFile` \- `fsPromises.writeFile` is a convenience
method that performs multiple `write` calls internally to write the buffer
passed to it. For performance sensitive code consider using
`fs.createWriteStream()` or `filehandle.createWriteStream()`.

It is possible to use an <AbortSignal> to cancel an `fsPromises.writeFile()`.
Cancelation is "best effort", and some amount of data is likely still to be
written.

    
    
    import { writeFile } from 'node:fs/promises';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    try {
      const controller = new AbortController();
      const { signal } = controller;
      const data = new Uint8Array(Buffer.from('Hello Node.js'));
      const promise = writeFile('message.txt', data, { signal });
    
      // Abort the request before the promise settles.
      controller.abort();
    
      await promise;
    } catch (err) {
      // When a request is aborted - err is an AbortError
      console.error(err);
    } copy

Aborting an ongoing request does not abort individual operating system
requests but rather the internal buffering `fs.writeFile` performs.

#### `fsPromises.constants`#

Added in: v18.4.0, v16.17.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns an object containing commonly used constants for file system
operations. The object is the same as `fs.constants`. See FS constants for
more details.

### Callback API#

The callback APIs perform all operations asynchronously, without blocking the
event loop, then invoke a callback function upon completion or error.

The callback APIs use the underlying Node.js threadpool to perform file system
operations off the event loop thread. These operations are not synchronized or
threadsafe. Care must be taken when performing multiple concurrent
modifications on the same file or data corruption may occur.

#### `fs.access(path[, mode], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.8.0 | The constants `fs.F_OK`, `fs.R_OK`, `fs.W_OK` and `fs.X_OK` which were present directly on `fs` are deprecated.  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v6.3.0 | The constants like `fs.R_OK`, etc which were present directly on `fs` were moved into `fs.constants` as a soft deprecation. Thus for Node.js `< v6.3.0` use `fs` to access those constants, or do something like `(fs.constants || fs).R_OK` to work with all versions.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `fs.constants.F_OK`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Tests a user's permissions for the file or directory specified by `path`. The `mode` argument is an optional integer that specifies the accessibility checks to be performed. `mode` should be either the value `fs.constants.F_OK` or a mask consisting of the bitwise OR of any of `fs.constants.R_OK`, `fs.constants.W_OK`, and `fs.constants.X_OK` (e.g. `fs.constants.W_OK | fs.constants.R_OK`). Check File access constants for possible values of `mode`.

The final argument, `callback`, is a callback function that is invoked with a
possible error argument. If any of the accessibility checks fail, the error
argument will be an `Error` object. The following examples check if
`package.json` exists, and if it is readable or writable.

    
    
    import { access, constants } from 'node:fs';
    
    const file = 'package.json';
    
    // Check if the file exists in the current directory.
    access(file, constants.F_OK, (err) => {
      console.log(`${file} ${err ? 'does not exist' : 'exists'}`);
    });
    
    // Check if the file is readable.
    access(file, constants.R_OK, (err) => {
      console.log(`${file} ${err ? 'is not readable' : 'is readable'}`);
    });
    
    // Check if the file is writable.
    access(file, constants.W_OK, (err) => {
      console.log(`${file} ${err ? 'is not writable' : 'is writable'}`);
    });
    
    // Check if the file is readable and writable.
    access(file, constants.R_OK | constants.W_OK, (err) => {
      console.log(`${file} ${err ? 'is not' : 'is'} readable and writable`);
    }); copy

Do not use `fs.access()` to check for the accessibility of a file before
calling `fs.open()`, `fs.readFile()`, or `fs.writeFile()`. Doing so introduces
a race condition, since other processes may change the file's state between
the two calls. Instead, user code should open/read/write the file directly and
handle the error raised if the file is not accessible.

**write (NOT RECOMMENDED)**

    
    
    import { access, open, close } from 'node:fs';
    
    access('myfile', (err) => {
      if (!err) {
        console.error('myfile already exists');
        return;
      }
    
      open('myfile', 'wx', (err, fd) => {
        if (err) throw err;
    
        try {
          writeMyData(fd);
        } finally {
          close(fd, (err) => {
            if (err) throw err;
          });
        }
      });
    }); copy

**write (RECOMMENDED)**

    
    
    import { open, close } from 'node:fs';
    
    open('myfile', 'wx', (err, fd) => {
      if (err) {
        if (err.code === 'EEXIST') {
          console.error('myfile already exists');
          return;
        }
    
        throw err;
      }
    
      try {
        writeMyData(fd);
      } finally {
        close(fd, (err) => {
          if (err) throw err;
        });
      }
    }); copy

**read (NOT RECOMMENDED)**

    
    
    import { access, open, close } from 'node:fs';
    access('myfile', (err) => {
      if (err) {
        if (err.code === 'ENOENT') {
          console.error('myfile does not exist');
          return;
        }
    
        throw err;
      }
    
      open('myfile', 'r', (err, fd) => {
        if (err) throw err;
    
        try {
          readMyData(fd);
        } finally {
          close(fd, (err) => {
            if (err) throw err;
          });
        }
      });
    }); copy

**read (RECOMMENDED)**

    
    
    import { open, close } from 'node:fs';
    
    open('myfile', 'r', (err, fd) => {
      if (err) {
        if (err.code === 'ENOENT') {
          console.error('myfile does not exist');
          return;
        }
    
        throw err;
      }
    
      try {
        readMyData(fd);
      } finally {
        close(fd, (err) => {
          if (err) throw err;
        });
      }
    }); copy

The "not recommended" examples above check for accessibility and then use the
file; the "recommended" examples are better because they use the file directly
and handle the error, if any.

In general, check for the accessibility of a file only if the file will not be
used directly, for example when its accessibility is a signal from another
process.

On Windows, access-control policies (ACLs) on a directory may limit access to
a file or directory. The `fs.access()` function, however, does not check the
ACL and therefore may report that a path is accessible even if the ACL
restricts the user from reading or writing to it.

#### `fs.appendFile(path, data[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.1.0, v20.10.0 | The `flush` option is now supported.  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v7.0.0 | The passed `options` object will never be modified.  
v5.0.0 | The `file` parameter can be a file descriptor now.  
v0.6.7 | Added in: v0.6.7  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL> | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) filename or file descriptor
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0o666`
    * `flag` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See support of file system `flags`. **Default:** `'a'`.
    * `flush` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, the underlying file descriptor is flushed prior to closing it. **Default:** `false`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Asynchronously append data to a file, creating the file if it does not yet
exist. `data` can be a string or a <Buffer>.

The `mode` option only affects the newly created file. See `fs.open()` for
more details.

    
    
    import { appendFile } from 'node:fs';
    
    appendFile('message.txt', 'data to append', (err) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log('The "data to append" was appended to file!');
    }); copy

If `options` is a string, then it specifies the encoding:

    
    
    import { appendFile } from 'node:fs';
    
    appendFile('message.txt', 'data to append', 'utf8', callback); copy

The `path` may be specified as a numeric file descriptor that has been opened
for appending (using `fs.open()` or `fs.openSync()`). The file descriptor will
not be closed automatically.

    
    
    import { open, close, appendFile } from 'node:fs';
    
    function closeFd(fd) {
      close(fd, (err) => {
        if (err) throw err;
      });
    }
    
    open('message.txt', 'a', (err, fd) => {
      if (err) throw err;
    
      try {
        appendFile(fd, 'data to append', 'utf8', (err) => {
          closeFd(fd);
          if (err) throw err;
        });
      } catch (err) {
        closeFd(fd);
        throw err;
      }
    }); copy

#### `fs.chmod(path, mode, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.1.30 | Added in: v0.1.30  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `mode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Asynchronously changes the permissions of a file. No arguments other than a
possible exception are given to the completion callback.

See the POSIX [`chmod(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/chmod.2.html)
documentation for more detail.

    
    
    import { chmod } from 'node:fs';
    
    chmod('my_file.txt', 0o775, (err) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log('The permissions for file "my_file.txt" have been changed!');
    }); copy

##### File modes#

The `mode` argument used in both the `fs.chmod()` and `fs.chmodSync()` methods
is a numeric bitmask created using a logical OR of the following constants:

Constant| Octal| Description  
---|---|---  
`fs.constants.S_IRUSR`| `0o400`| read by owner  
`fs.constants.S_IWUSR`| `0o200`| write by owner  
`fs.constants.S_IXUSR`| `0o100`| execute/search by owner  
`fs.constants.S_IRGRP`| `0o40`| read by group  
`fs.constants.S_IWGRP`| `0o20`| write by group  
`fs.constants.S_IXGRP`| `0o10`| execute/search by group  
`fs.constants.S_IROTH`| `0o4`| read by others  
`fs.constants.S_IWOTH`| `0o2`| write by others  
`fs.constants.S_IXOTH`| `0o1`| execute/search by others  
  
An easier method of constructing the `mode` is to use a sequence of three
octal digits (e.g. `765`). The left-most digit (`7` in the example), specifies
the permissions for the file owner. The middle digit (`6` in the example),
specifies permissions for the group. The right-most digit (`5` in the
example), specifies the permissions for others.

Number| Description  
---|---  
`7`| read, write, and execute  
`6`| read and write  
`5`| read and execute  
`4`| read only  
`3`| write and execute  
`2`| write only  
`1`| execute only  
`0`| no permission  
  
For example, the octal value `0o765` means:

  * The owner may read, write, and execute the file.
  * The group may read and write the file.
  * Others may read and execute the file.

When using raw numbers where file modes are expected, any value larger than
`0o777` may result in platform-specific behaviors that are not supported to
work consistently. Therefore constants like `S_ISVTX`, `S_ISGID`, or `S_ISUID`
are not exposed in `fs.constants`.

Caveats: on Windows only the write permission can be changed, and the
distinction among the permissions of group, owner, or others is not
implemented.

#### `fs.chown(path, uid, gid, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.1.97 | Added in: v0.1.97  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `uid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `gid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Asynchronously changes owner and group of a file. No arguments other than a
possible exception are given to the completion callback.

See the POSIX [`chown(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/chown.2.html)
documentation for more detail.

#### `fs.close(fd[, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v15.9.0, v14.17.0 | A default callback is now used if one is not provided.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.0.2 | Added in: v0.0.2  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Closes the file descriptor. No arguments other than a possible exception are
given to the completion callback.

Calling `fs.close()` on any file descriptor (`fd`) that is currently in use
through any other `fs` operation may lead to undefined behavior.

See the POSIX [`close(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/close.2.html)
documentation for more detail.

#### `fs.copyFile(src, dest[, mode], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v14.0.0 | Changed `flags` argument to `mode` and imposed stricter type validation.  
v8.5.0 | Added in: v8.5.0  
  
  * `src` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL> source filename to copy
  * `dest` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL> destination filename of the copy operation
  * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) modifiers for copy operation. **Default:** `0`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Asynchronously copies `src` to `dest`. By default, `dest` is overwritten if it
already exists. No arguments other than a possible exception are given to the
callback function. Node.js makes no guarantees about the atomicity of the copy
operation. If an error occurs after the destination file has been opened for
writing, Node.js will attempt to remove the destination.

`mode` is an optional integer that specifies the behavior of the copy operation. It is possible to create a mask consisting of the bitwise OR of two or more values (e.g. `fs.constants.COPYFILE_EXCL | fs.constants.COPYFILE_FICLONE`).

  * `fs.constants.COPYFILE_EXCL`: The copy operation will fail if `dest` already exists.
  * `fs.constants.COPYFILE_FICLONE`: The copy operation will attempt to create a copy-on-write reflink. If the platform does not support copy-on-write, then a fallback copy mechanism is used.
  * `fs.constants.COPYFILE_FICLONE_FORCE`: The copy operation will attempt to create a copy-on-write reflink. If the platform does not support copy-on-write, then the operation will fail.

    
    
    import { copyFile, constants } from 'node:fs';
    
    function callback(err) {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log('source.txt was copied to destination.txt');
    }
    
    // destination.txt will be created or overwritten by default.
    copyFile('source.txt', 'destination.txt', callback);
    
    // By using COPYFILE_EXCL, the operation will fail if destination.txt exists.
    copyFile('source.txt', 'destination.txt', constants.COPYFILE_EXCL, callback); copy

#### `fs.cp(src, dest[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.3.0 | This API is no longer experimental.  
v20.1.0, v18.17.0 | Accept an additional `mode` option to specify the copy behavior as the `mode` argument of `fs.copyFile()`.  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v17.6.0, v16.15.0 | Accepts an additional `verbatimSymlinks` option to specify whether to perform path resolution for symlinks.  
v16.7.0 | Added in: v16.7.0  
  
  * `src` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> source path to copy.
  * `dest` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> destination path to copy to.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `dereference` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) dereference symlinks. **Default:** `false`.
    * `errorOnExist` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) when `force` is `false`, and the destination exists, throw an error. **Default:** `false`.
    * `filter` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Function to filter copied files/directories. Return `true` to copy the item, `false` to ignore it. When ignoring a directory, all of its contents will be skipped as well. Can also return a `Promise` that resolves to `true` or `false` **Default:** `undefined`. 
      * `src` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) source path to copy.
      * `dest` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) destination path to copy to.
      * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) A value that is coercible to `boolean` or a `Promise` that fulfils with such value.
    * `force` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) overwrite existing file or directory. The copy operation will ignore errors if you set this to false and the destination exists. Use the `errorOnExist` option to change this behavior. **Default:** `true`.
    * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) modifiers for copy operation. **Default:** `0`. See `mode` flag of `fs.copyFile()`.
    * `preserveTimestamps` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true` timestamps from `src` will be preserved. **Default:** `false`.
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) copy directories recursively **Default:** `false`
    * `verbatimSymlinks` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, path resolution for symlinks will be skipped. **Default:** `false`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Asynchronously copies the entire directory structure from `src` to `dest`,
including subdirectories and files.

When copying a directory to another directory, globs are not supported and
behavior is similar to `cp dir1/ dir2/`.

#### `fs.createReadStream(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.10.0 | The `fs` option does not need `open` method if an `fd` was provided.  
v16.10.0 | The `fs` option does not need `close` method if `autoClose` is `false`.  
v15.5.0 | Add support for `AbortSignal`.  
v15.4.0 | The `fd` option accepts FileHandle arguments.  
v14.0.0 | Change `emitClose` default to `true`.  
v13.6.0, v12.17.0 | The `fs` options allow overriding the used `fs` implementation.  
v12.10.0 | Enable `emitClose` option.  
v11.0.0 | Impose new restrictions on `start` and `end`, throwing more appropriate errors in cases when we cannot reasonably handle the input values.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v7.0.0 | The passed `options` object will never be modified.  
v2.3.0 | The passed `options` object can be a string now.  
v0.1.31 | Added in: v0.1.31  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `flags` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See support of file system `flags`. **Default:** `'r'`.
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `null`
    * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | <FileHandle> **Default:** `null`
    * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0o666`
    * `autoClose` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `true`
    * `emitClose` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `true`
    * `start` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `end` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `Infinity`
    * `highWaterMark` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `64 * 1024`
    * `fs` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
  * Returns: <fs.ReadStream>

`options` can include `start` and `end` values to read a range of bytes from
the file instead of the entire file. Both `start` and `end` are inclusive and
start counting at 0, allowed values are in the [0,
[`Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number/MAX_SAFE_INTEGER)]
range. If `fd` is specified and `start` is omitted or `undefined`,
`fs.createReadStream()` reads sequentially from the current file position. The
`encoding` can be any one of those accepted by <Buffer>.

If `fd` is specified, `ReadStream` will ignore the `path` argument and will
use the specified file descriptor. This means that no `'open'` event will be
emitted. `fd` should be blocking; non-blocking `fd`s should be passed to
<net.Socket>.

If `fd` points to a character device that only supports blocking reads (such
as keyboard or sound card), read operations do not finish until data is
available. This can prevent the process from exiting and the stream from
closing naturally.

By default, the stream will emit a `'close'` event after it has been
destroyed. Set the `emitClose` option to `false` to change this behavior.

By providing the `fs` option, it is possible to override the corresponding
`fs` implementations for `open`, `read`, and `close`. When providing the `fs`
option, an override for `read` is required. If no `fd` is provided, an
override for `open` is also required. If `autoClose` is `true`, an override
for `close` is also required.

    
    
    import { createReadStream } from 'node:fs';
    
    // Create a stream from some character device.
    const stream = createReadStream('/dev/input/event0');
    setTimeout(() => {
      stream.close(); // This may not close the stream.
      // Artificially marking end-of-stream, as if the underlying resource had
      // indicated end-of-file by itself, allows the stream to close.
      // This does not cancel pending read operations, and if there is such an
      // operation, the process may still not be able to exit successfully
      // until it finishes.
      stream.push(null);
      stream.read(0);
    }, 100); copy

If `autoClose` is false, then the file descriptor won't be closed, even if
there's an error. It is the application's responsibility to close it and make
sure there's no file descriptor leak. If `autoClose` is set to true (default
behavior), on `'error'` or `'end'` the file descriptor will be closed
automatically.

`mode` sets the file mode (permission and sticky bits), but only if the file
was created.

An example to read the last 10 bytes of a file which is 100 bytes long:

    
    
    import { createReadStream } from 'node:fs';
    
    createReadStream('sample.txt', { start: 90, end: 99 }); copy

If `options` is a string, then it specifies the encoding.

#### `fs.createWriteStream(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0, v20.10.0 | The `flush` option is now supported.  
v16.10.0 | The `fs` option does not need `open` method if an `fd` was provided.  
v16.10.0 | The `fs` option does not need `close` method if `autoClose` is `false`.  
v15.5.0 | Add support for `AbortSignal`.  
v15.4.0 | The `fd` option accepts FileHandle arguments.  
v14.0.0 | Change `emitClose` default to `true`.  
v13.6.0, v12.17.0 | The `fs` options allow overriding the used `fs` implementation.  
v12.10.0 | Enable `emitClose` option.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v7.0.0 | The passed `options` object will never be modified.  
v5.5.0 | The `autoClose` option is supported now.  
v2.3.0 | The passed `options` object can be a string now.  
v0.1.31 | Added in: v0.1.31  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `flags` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See support of file system `flags`. **Default:** `'w'`.
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | <FileHandle> **Default:** `null`
    * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0o666`
    * `autoClose` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `true`
    * `emitClose` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `true`
    * `start` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `fs` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
    * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `16384`
    * `flush` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, the underlying file descriptor is flushed prior to closing it. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: <fs.WriteStream>

`options` may also include a `start` option to allow writing data at some
position past the beginning of the file, allowed values are in the [0,
[`Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number/MAX_SAFE_INTEGER)]
range. Modifying a file rather than replacing it may require the `flags`
option to be set to `r+` rather than the default `w`. The `encoding` can be
any one of those accepted by <Buffer>.

If `autoClose` is set to true (default behavior) on `'error'` or `'finish'`
the file descriptor will be closed automatically. If `autoClose` is false,
then the file descriptor won't be closed, even if there's an error. It is the
application's responsibility to close it and make sure there's no file
descriptor leak.

By default, the stream will emit a `'close'` event after it has been
destroyed. Set the `emitClose` option to `false` to change this behavior.

By providing the `fs` option it is possible to override the corresponding `fs`
implementations for `open`, `write`, `writev`, and `close`. Overriding
`write()` without `writev()` can reduce performance as some optimizations
(`_writev()`) will be disabled. When providing the `fs` option, overrides for
at least one of `write` and `writev` are required. If no `fd` option is
supplied, an override for `open` is also required. If `autoClose` is `true`,
an override for `close` is also required.

Like <fs.ReadStream>, if `fd` is specified, <fs.WriteStream> will ignore the
`path` argument and will use the specified file descriptor. This means that no
`'open'` event will be emitted. `fd` should be blocking; non-blocking `fd`s
should be passed to <net.Socket>.

If `options` is a string, then it specifies the encoding.

#### `fs.exists(path, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v1.0.0 | Deprecated since: v1.0.0  
v0.0.2 | Added in: v0.0.2  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `fs.stat()` or `fs.access()` instead.

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `exists` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Test whether or not the element at the given `path` exists by checking with
the file system. Then call the `callback` argument with either true or false:

    
    
    import { exists } from 'node:fs';
    
    exists('/etc/passwd', (e) => {
      console.log(e ? 'it exists' : 'no passwd!');
    }); copy

**The parameters for this callback are not consistent with other Node.js
callbacks.** Normally, the first parameter to a Node.js callback is an `err`
parameter, optionally followed by other parameters. The `fs.exists()` callback
has only one boolean parameter. This is one reason `fs.access()` is
recommended instead of `fs.exists()`.

If `path` is a symbolic link, it is followed. Thus, if `path` exists but
points to a non-existent element, the callback will receive the value `false`.

Using `fs.exists()` to check for the existence of a file before calling
`fs.open()`, `fs.readFile()`, or `fs.writeFile()` is not recommended. Doing so
introduces a race condition, since other processes may change the file's state
between the two calls. Instead, user code should open/read/write the file
directly and handle the error raised if the file does not exist.

**write (NOT RECOMMENDED)**

    
    
    import { exists, open, close } from 'node:fs';
    
    exists('myfile', (e) => {
      if (e) {
        console.error('myfile already exists');
      } else {
        open('myfile', 'wx', (err, fd) => {
          if (err) throw err;
    
          try {
            writeMyData(fd);
          } finally {
            close(fd, (err) => {
              if (err) throw err;
            });
          }
        });
      }
    }); copy

**write (RECOMMENDED)**

    
    
    import { open, close } from 'node:fs';
    open('myfile', 'wx', (err, fd) => {
      if (err) {
        if (err.code === 'EEXIST') {
          console.error('myfile already exists');
          return;
        }
    
        throw err;
      }
    
      try {
        writeMyData(fd);
      } finally {
        close(fd, (err) => {
          if (err) throw err;
        });
      }
    }); copy

**read (NOT RECOMMENDED)**

    
    
    import { open, close, exists } from 'node:fs';
    
    exists('myfile', (e) => {
      if (e) {
        open('myfile', 'r', (err, fd) => {
          if (err) throw err;
    
          try {
            readMyData(fd);
          } finally {
            close(fd, (err) => {
              if (err) throw err;
            });
          }
        });
      } else {
        console.error('myfile does not exist');
      }
    }); copy

**read (RECOMMENDED)**

    
    
    import { open, close } from 'node:fs';
    
    open('myfile', 'r', (err, fd) => {
      if (err) {
        if (err.code === 'ENOENT') {
          console.error('myfile does not exist');
          return;
        }
    
        throw err;
      }
    
      try {
        readMyData(fd);
      } finally {
        close(fd, (err) => {
          if (err) throw err;
        });
      }
    }); copy

The "not recommended" examples above check for existence and then use the
file; the "recommended" examples are better because they use the file directly
and handle the error, if any.

In general, check for the existence of a file only if the file won't be used
directly, for example when its existence is a signal from another process.

#### `fs.fchmod(fd, mode, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.4.7 | Added in: v0.4.7  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `mode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Sets the permissions on the file. No arguments other than a possible exception
are given to the completion callback.

See the POSIX [`fchmod(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/fchmod.2.html) documentation for more detail.

#### `fs.fchown(fd, uid, gid, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.4.7 | Added in: v0.4.7  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `uid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `gid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Sets the owner of the file. No arguments other than a possible exception are
given to the completion callback.

See the POSIX [`fchown(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/fchown.2.html) documentation for more detail.

#### `fs.fdatasync(fd, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.1.96 | Added in: v0.1.96  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Forces all currently queued I/O operations associated with the file to the
operating system's synchronized I/O completion state. Refer to the POSIX
[`fdatasync(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/fdatasync.2.html)
documentation for details. No arguments other than a possible exception are
given to the completion callback.

#### `fs.fstat(fd[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.5.0 | Accepts an additional `options` object to specify whether the numeric values returned should be bigint.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.1.95 | Added in: v0.1.95  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `bigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether the numeric values in the returned <fs.Stats> object should be `bigint`. **Default:** `false`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `stats` <fs.Stats>

Invokes the callback with the <fs.Stats> for the file descriptor.

See the POSIX [`fstat(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/fstat.2.html)
documentation for more detail.

#### `fs.fsync(fd, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.1.96 | Added in: v0.1.96  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Request that all data for the open file descriptor is flushed to the storage
device. The specific implementation is operating system and device specific.
Refer to the POSIX [`fsync(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/fsync.2.html) documentation for more detail. No arguments other
than a possible exception are given to the completion callback.

#### `fs.ftruncate(fd[, len], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.8.6 | Added in: v0.8.6  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `len` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Truncates the file descriptor. No arguments other than a possible exception
are given to the completion callback.

See the POSIX [`ftruncate(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/ftruncate.2.html) documentation for more detail.

If the file referred to by the file descriptor was larger than `len` bytes,
only the first `len` bytes will be retained in the file.

For example, the following program retains only the first four bytes of the
file:

    
    
    import { open, close, ftruncate } from 'node:fs';
    
    function closeFd(fd) {
      close(fd, (err) => {
        if (err) throw err;
      });
    }
    
    open('temp.txt', 'r+', (err, fd) => {
      if (err) throw err;
    
      try {
        ftruncate(fd, 4, (err) => {
          closeFd(fd);
          if (err) throw err;
        });
      } catch (err) {
        closeFd(fd);
        if (err) throw err;
      }
    }); copy

If the file previously was shorter than `len` bytes, it is extended, and the
extended part is filled with null bytes (`'\0'`):

If `len` is negative then `0` will be used.

#### `fs.futimes(fd, atime, mtime, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v4.1.0 | Numeric strings, `NaN`, and `Infinity` are now allowed time specifiers.  
v0.4.2 | Added in: v0.4.2  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `atime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)
  * `mtime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Change the file system timestamps of the object referenced by the supplied
file descriptor. See `fs.utimes()`.

#### `fs.glob(pattern[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.7.0 | Add support for `exclude` option to accept glob patterns.  
v22.2.0 | Add support for `withFileTypes` as an option.  
v22.0.0 | Added in: v22.0.0  
  
Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `pattern` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

    * `cwd` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) current working directory. **Default:** `process.cwd()`
    * `exclude` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Function to filter out files/directories or a list of glob patterns to be excluded. If a function is provided, return `true` to exclude the item, `false` to include it. **Default:** `undefined`.
    * `withFileTypes` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the glob should return paths as Dirents, `false` otherwise. **Default:** `false`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
  * Retrieves the files matching the specified pattern.

    
    
    import { glob } from 'node:fs';
    
    glob('**/*.js', (err, matches) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(matches);
    });const { glob } = require('node:fs');
    
    glob('**/*.js', (err, matches) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(matches);
    });copy

#### `fs.lchmod(path, mode, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v16.0.0 | The error returned may be an `AggregateError` if more than one error is returned.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.4.7 | Deprecated since: v0.4.7  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) | [<AggregateError>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/AggregateError)

Changes the permissions on a symbolic link. No arguments other than a possible
exception are given to the completion callback.

This method is only implemented on macOS.

See the POSIX
[`lchmod(2)`](https://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=lchmod&sektion=2)
documentation for more detail.

#### `fs.lchown(path, uid, gid, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.6.0 | This API is no longer deprecated.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.4.7 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `uid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `gid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Set the owner of the symbolic link. No arguments other than a possible
exception are given to the completion callback.

See the POSIX [`lchown(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/lchown.2.html) documentation for more detail.

#### `fs.lutimes(path, atime, mtime, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v14.5.0, v12.19.0 | Added in: v14.5.0, v12.19.0  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `atime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)
  * `mtime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Changes the access and modification times of a file in the same way as
`fs.utimes()`, with the difference that if the path refers to a symbolic link,
then the link is not dereferenced: instead, the timestamps of the symbolic
link itself are changed.

No arguments other than a possible exception are given to the completion
callback.

#### `fs.link(existingPath, newPath, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.6.0 | The `existingPath` and `newPath` parameters can be WHATWG `URL` objects using `file:` protocol. Support is currently still _experimental_.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.1.31 | Added in: v0.1.31  
  
  * `existingPath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `newPath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Creates a new link from the `existingPath` to the `newPath`. See the POSIX
[`link(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/link.2.html) documentation
for more detail. No arguments other than a possible exception are given to the
completion callback.

#### `fs.lstat(path[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.5.0 | Accepts an additional `options` object to specify whether the numeric values returned should be bigint.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.1.30 | Added in: v0.1.30  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `bigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether the numeric values in the returned <fs.Stats> object should be `bigint`. **Default:** `false`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `stats` <fs.Stats>

Retrieves the <fs.Stats> for the symbolic link referred to by the path. The
callback gets two arguments `(err, stats)` where `stats` is a <fs.Stats>
object. `lstat()` is identical to `stat()`, except that if `path` is a
symbolic link, then the link itself is stat-ed, not the file that it refers
to.

See the POSIX [`lstat(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/lstat.2.html)
documentation for more details.

#### `fs.mkdir(path[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v13.11.0, v12.17.0 | In `recursive` mode, the callback now receives the first created path as an argument.  
v10.12.0 | The second argument can now be an `options` object with `recursive` and `mode` properties.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.1.8 | Added in: v0.1.8  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`
    * `mode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Not supported on Windows. **Default:** `0o777`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Present only if a directory is created with `recursive` set to `true`.

Asynchronously creates a directory.

The callback is given a possible exception and, if `recursive` is `true`, the
first directory path created, `(err[, path])`. `path` can still be `undefined`
when `recursive` is `true`, if no directory was created (for instance, if it
was previously created).

The optional `options` argument can be an integer specifying `mode`
(permission and sticky bits), or an object with a `mode` property and a
`recursive` property indicating whether parent directories should be created.
Calling `fs.mkdir()` when `path` is a directory that exists results in an
error only when `recursive` is false. If `recursive` is false and the
directory exists, an `EEXIST` error occurs.

    
    
    import { mkdir } from 'node:fs';
    
    // Create ./tmp/a/apple, regardless of whether ./tmp and ./tmp/a exist.
    mkdir('./tmp/a/apple', { recursive: true }, (err) => {
      if (err) throw err;
    }); copy

On Windows, using `fs.mkdir()` on the root directory even with recursion will
result in an error:

    
    
    import { mkdir } from 'node:fs';
    
    mkdir('/', { recursive: true }, (err) => {
      // => [Error: EPERM: operation not permitted, mkdir 'C:\']
    }); copy

See the POSIX [`mkdir(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/mkdir.2.html)
documentation for more details.

#### `fs.mkdtemp(prefix[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.6.0, v18.19.0 | The `prefix` parameter now accepts buffers and URL.  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v16.5.0, v14.18.0 | The `prefix` parameter now accepts an empty string.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v6.2.1 | The `callback` parameter is optional now.  
v5.10.0 | Added in: v5.10.0  
  
  * `prefix` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `directory` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Creates a unique temporary directory.

Generates six random characters to be appended behind a required `prefix` to
create a unique temporary directory. Due to platform inconsistencies, avoid
trailing `X` characters in `prefix`. Some platforms, notably the BSDs, can
return more than six random characters, and replace trailing `X` characters in
`prefix` with random characters.

The created directory path is passed as a string to the callback's second
parameter.

The optional `options` argument can be a string specifying an encoding, or an
object with an `encoding` property specifying the character encoding to use.

    
    
    import { mkdtemp } from 'node:fs';
    import { join } from 'node:path';
    import { tmpdir } from 'node:os';
    
    mkdtemp(join(tmpdir(), 'foo-'), (err, directory) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(directory);
      // Prints: /tmp/foo-itXde2 or C:\Users\...\AppData\Local\Temp\foo-itXde2
    }); copy

The `fs.mkdtemp()` method will append the six randomly selected characters
directly to the `prefix` string. For instance, given a directory `/tmp`, if
the intention is to create a temporary directory _within_ `/tmp`, the `prefix`
must end with a trailing platform-specific path separator
(`require('node:path').sep`).

    
    
    import { tmpdir } from 'node:os';
    import { mkdtemp } from 'node:fs';
    
    // The parent directory for the new temporary directory
    const tmpDir = tmpdir();
    
    // This method is *INCORRECT*:
    mkdtemp(tmpDir, (err, directory) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(directory);
      // Will print something similar to `/tmpabc123`.
      // A new temporary directory is created at the file system root
      // rather than *within* the /tmp directory.
    });
    
    // This method is *CORRECT*:
    import { sep } from 'node:path';
    mkdtemp(`${tmpDir}${sep}`, (err, directory) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(directory);
      // Will print something similar to `/tmp/abc123`.
      // A new temporary directory is created within
      // the /tmp directory.
    }); copy

#### `fs.open(path[, flags[, mode]], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v11.1.0 | The `flags` argument is now optional and defaults to `'r'`.  
v9.9.0 | The `as` and `as+` flags are supported now.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v0.0.2 | Added in: v0.0.2  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `flags` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) See support of file system `flags`. **Default:** `'r'`.
  * `mode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0o666` (readable and writable)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Asynchronous file open. See the POSIX [`open(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/open.2.html) documentation for more details.

`mode` sets the file mode (permission and sticky bits), but only if the file
was created. On Windows, only the write permission can be manipulated; see
`fs.chmod()`.

The callback gets two arguments `(err, fd)`.

Some characters (`< > : " / \ | ? *`) are reserved under Windows as documented by [Naming Files, Paths, and Namespaces](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/FileIO/naming-a-file). Under NTFS, if the filename contains a colon, Node.js will open a file system stream, as described by [this MSDN page](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/FileIO/using-streams).

Functions based on `fs.open()` exhibit this behavior as well:
`fs.writeFile()`, `fs.readFile()`, etc.

#### `fs.openAsBlob(path[, options])`#

Added in: v19.8.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) An optional mime type for the blob.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with a <Blob> upon success.

Returns a <Blob> whose data is backed by the given file.

The file must not be modified after the <Blob> is created. Any modifications
will cause reading the <Blob> data to fail with a `DOMException` error.
Synchronous stat operations on the file when the `Blob` is created, and before
each read in order to detect whether the file data has been modified on disk.

    
    
    import { openAsBlob } from 'node:fs';
    
    const blob = await openAsBlob('the.file.txt');
    const ab = await blob.arrayBuffer();
    blob.stream();const { openAsBlob } = require('node:fs');
    
    (async () => {
      const blob = await openAsBlob('the.file.txt');
      const ab = await blob.arrayBuffer();
      blob.stream();
    })();copy

#### `fs.opendir(path[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.1.0, v18.17.0 | Added `recursive` option.  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v13.1.0, v12.16.0 | The `bufferSize` option was introduced.  
v12.12.0 | Added in: v12.12.0  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `bufferSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of directory entries that are buffered internally when reading from the directory. Higher values lead to better performance but higher memory usage. **Default:** `32`
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `dir` <fs.Dir>

Asynchronously open a directory. See the POSIX
[`opendir(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/opendir.3.html)
documentation for more details.

Creates an <fs.Dir>, which contains all further functions for reading from and
cleaning up the directory.

The `encoding` option sets the encoding for the `path` while opening the
directory and subsequent read operations.

#### `fs.read(fd, buffer, offset, length, position, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.10.0 | The `buffer` parameter can now be any `TypedArray`, or a `DataView`.  
v7.4.0 | The `buffer` parameter can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v6.0.0 | The `length` parameter can now be `0`.  
v0.0.2 | Added in: v0.0.2  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) The buffer that the data will be written to.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The position in `buffer` to write the data to.
  * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes to read.
  * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) Specifies where to begin reading from in the file. If `position` is `null` or `-1 `, data will be read from the current file position, and the file position will be updated. If `position` is a non-negative integer, the file position will be unchanged.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `bytesRead` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `buffer` <Buffer>

Read data from the file specified by `fd`.

The callback is given the three arguments, `(err, bytesRead, buffer)`.

If the file is not modified concurrently, the end-of-file is reached when the
number of bytes read is zero.

If this method is invoked as its `util.promisify()`ed version, it returns a
promise for an `Object` with `bytesRead` and `buffer` properties.

The `fs.read()` method reads data from the file specified by the file
descriptor (`fd`). The `length` argument indicates the maximum number of bytes
that Node.js will attempt to read from the kernel. However, the actual number
of bytes read (`bytesRead`) can be lower than the specified `length` for
various reasons.

For example:

  * If the file is shorter than the specified `length`, `bytesRead` will be set to the actual number of bytes read.
  * If the file encounters EOF (End of File) before the buffer could be filled, Node.js will read all available bytes until EOF is encountered, and the `bytesRead` parameter in the callback will indicate the actual number of bytes read, which may be less than the specified `length`.
  * If the file is on a slow network `filesystem` or encounters any other issue during reading, `bytesRead` can be lower than the specified `length`.

Therefore, when using `fs.read()`, it's important to check the `bytesRead`
value to determine how many bytes were actually read from the file. Depending
on your application logic, you may need to handle cases where `bytesRead` is
lower than the specified `length`, such as by wrapping the read call in a loop
if you require a minimum amount of bytes.

This behavior is similar to the POSIX `preadv2` function.

#### `fs.read(fd[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.11.0, v12.17.0 | Options object can be passed in to make buffer, offset, length, and position optional.  
v13.11.0, v12.17.0 | Added in: v13.11.0, v12.17.0  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) **Default:** `Buffer.alloc(16384)`
    * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`
    * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `buffer.byteLength - offset`
    * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `bytesRead` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `buffer` <Buffer>

Similar to the `fs.read()` function, this version takes an optional `options`
object. If no `options` object is specified, it will default with the above
values.

#### `fs.read(fd, buffer[, options], callback)`#

Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0

  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) The buffer that the data will be written to.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`
    * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `buffer.byteLength - offset`
    * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) **Default:** `null`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `bytesRead` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `buffer` <Buffer>

Similar to the `fs.read()` function, this version takes an optional `options`
object. If no `options` object is specified, it will default with the above
values.

#### `fs.readdir(path[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.1.0, v18.17.0 | Added `recursive` option.  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.10.0 | New option `withFileTypes` was added.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v6.0.0 | The `options` parameter was added.  
v0.1.8 | Added in: v0.1.8  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `withFileTypes` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, reads the contents of a directory recursively. In recursive mode, it will list all files, sub files and directories. **Default:** `false`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `files` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer[]> | <fs.Dirent[]>

Reads the contents of a directory. The callback gets two arguments `(err,
files)` where `files` is an array of the names of the files in the directory
excluding `'.'` and `'..'`.

See the POSIX [`readdir(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man3/readdir.3.html) documentation for more details.

The optional `options` argument can be a string specifying an encoding, or an
object with an `encoding` property specifying the character encoding to use
for the filenames passed to the callback. If the `encoding` is set to
`'buffer'`, the filenames returned will be passed as <Buffer> objects.

If `options.withFileTypes` is set to `true`, the `files` array will contain
<fs.Dirent> objects.

#### `fs.readFile(path[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v16.0.0 | The error returned may be an `AggregateError` if more than one error is returned.  
v15.2.0, v14.17.0 | The options argument may include an AbortSignal to abort an ongoing readFile request.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v5.1.0 | The `callback` will always be called with `null` as the `error` parameter in case of success.  
v5.0.0 | The `path` parameter can be a file descriptor now.  
v0.1.29 | Added in: v0.1.29  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL> | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) filename or file descriptor
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
    * `flag` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See support of file system `flags`. **Default:** `'r'`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows aborting an in-progress readFile
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) | [<AggregateError>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/AggregateError)
    * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>

Asynchronously reads the entire contents of a file.

    
    
    import { readFile } from 'node:fs';
    
    readFile('/etc/passwd', (err, data) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(data);
    }); copy

The callback is passed two arguments `(err, data)`, where `data` is the
contents of the file.

If no encoding is specified, then the raw buffer is returned.

If `options` is a string, then it specifies the encoding:

    
    
    import { readFile } from 'node:fs';
    
    readFile('/etc/passwd', 'utf8', callback); copy

When the path is a directory, the behavior of `fs.readFile()` and
`fs.readFileSync()` is platform-specific. On macOS, Linux, and Windows, an
error will be returned. On FreeBSD, a representation of the directory's
contents will be returned.

    
    
    import { readFile } from 'node:fs';
    
    // macOS, Linux, and Windows
    readFile('<directory>', (err, data) => {
      // => [Error: EISDIR: illegal operation on a directory, read <directory>]
    });
    
    //  FreeBSD
    readFile('<directory>', (err, data) => {
      // => null, <data>
    }); copy

It is possible to abort an ongoing request using an `AbortSignal`. If a
request is aborted the callback is called with an `AbortError`:

    
    
    import { readFile } from 'node:fs';
    
    const controller = new AbortController();
    const signal = controller.signal;
    readFile(fileInfo[0].name, { signal }, (err, buf) => {
      // ...
    });
    // When you want to abort the request
    controller.abort(); copy

The `fs.readFile()` function buffers the entire file. To minimize memory
costs, when possible prefer streaming via `fs.createReadStream()`.

Aborting an ongoing request does not abort individual operating system
requests but rather the internal buffering `fs.readFile` performs.

##### File descriptors#

  1. Any specified file descriptor has to support reading.
  2. If a file descriptor is specified as the `path`, it will not be closed automatically.
  3. The reading will begin at the current position. For example, if the file already had `'Hello World'` and six bytes are read with the file descriptor, the call to `fs.readFile()` with the same file descriptor, would give `'World'`, rather than `'Hello World'`.

##### Performance Considerations#

The `fs.readFile()` method asynchronously reads the contents of a file into
memory one chunk at a time, allowing the event loop to turn between each
chunk. This allows the read operation to have less impact on other activity
that may be using the underlying libuv thread pool but means that it will take
longer to read a complete file into memory.

The additional read overhead can vary broadly on different systems and depends
on the type of file being read. If the file type is not a regular file (a pipe
for instance) and Node.js is unable to determine an actual file size, each
read operation will load on 64 KiB of data. For regular files, each read will
process 512 KiB of data.

For applications that require as-fast-as-possible reading of file contents, it
is better to use `fs.read()` directly and for application code to manage
reading the full contents of the file itself.

The Node.js GitHub issue [#25741](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/25741)
provides more information and a detailed analysis on the performance of
`fs.readFile()` for multiple file sizes in different Node.js versions.

#### `fs.readlink(path[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.1.31 | Added in: v0.1.31  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `linkString` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>

Reads the contents of the symbolic link referred to by `path`. The callback
gets two arguments `(err, linkString)`.

See the POSIX [`readlink(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/readlink.2.html) documentation for more details.

The optional `options` argument can be a string specifying an encoding, or an
object with an `encoding` property specifying the character encoding to use
for the link path passed to the callback. If the `encoding` is set to
`'buffer'`, the link path returned will be passed as a <Buffer> object.

#### `fs.readv(fd, buffers[, position], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v13.13.0, v12.17.0 | Added in: v13.13.0, v12.17.0  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `buffers` [<ArrayBufferView[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ArrayBufferView)
  * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `bytesRead` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `buffers` [<ArrayBufferView[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ArrayBufferView)

Read from a file specified by `fd` and write to an array of `ArrayBufferView`s
using `readv()`.

`position` is the offset from the beginning of the file from where data should
be read. If `typeof position !== 'number'`, the data will be read from the
current position.

The callback will be given three arguments: `err`, `bytesRead`, and `buffers`.
`bytesRead` is how many bytes were read from the file.

If this method is invoked as its `util.promisify()`ed version, it returns a
promise for an `Object` with `bytesRead` and `buffers` properties.

#### `fs.realpath(path[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v8.0.0 | Pipe/Socket resolve support was added.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v6.4.0 | Calling `realpath` now works again for various edge cases on Windows.  
v6.0.0 | The `cache` parameter was removed.  
v0.1.31 | Added in: v0.1.31  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `resolvedPath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>

Asynchronously computes the canonical pathname by resolving `.`, `..`, and
symbolic links.

A canonical pathname is not necessarily unique. Hard links and bind mounts can
expose a file system entity through many pathnames.

This function behaves like [`realpath(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man3/realpath.3.html), with some exceptions:

  1. No case conversion is performed on case-insensitive file systems.

  2. The maximum number of symbolic links is platform-independent and generally (much) higher than what the native [`realpath(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/realpath.3.html) implementation supports.

The `callback` gets two arguments `(err, resolvedPath)`. May use `process.cwd`
to resolve relative paths.

Only paths that can be converted to UTF8 strings are supported.

The optional `options` argument can be a string specifying an encoding, or an
object with an `encoding` property specifying the character encoding to use
for the path passed to the callback. If the `encoding` is set to `'buffer'`,
the path returned will be passed as a <Buffer> object.

If `path` resolves to a socket or a pipe, the function will return a system
dependent name for that object.

A path that does not exist results in an ENOENT error. `error.path` is the
absolute file path.

#### `fs.realpath.native(path[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v9.2.0 | Added in: v9.2.0  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `resolvedPath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>

Asynchronous [`realpath(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man3/realpath.3.html).

The `callback` gets two arguments `(err, resolvedPath)`.

Only paths that can be converted to UTF8 strings are supported.

The optional `options` argument can be a string specifying an encoding, or an
object with an `encoding` property specifying the character encoding to use
for the path passed to the callback. If the `encoding` is set to `'buffer'`,
the path returned will be passed as a <Buffer> object.

On Linux, when Node.js is linked against musl libc, the procfs file system
must be mounted on `/proc` in order for this function to work. Glibc does not
have this restriction.

#### `fs.rename(oldPath, newPath, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.6.0 | The `oldPath` and `newPath` parameters can be WHATWG `URL` objects using `file:` protocol. Support is currently still _experimental_.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.0.2 | Added in: v0.0.2  
  
  * `oldPath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `newPath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Asynchronously rename file at `oldPath` to the pathname provided as `newPath`.
In the case that `newPath` already exists, it will be overwritten. If there is
a directory at `newPath`, an error will be raised instead. No arguments other
than a possible exception are given to the completion callback.

See also: [`rename(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/rename.2.html).

    
    
    import { rename } from 'node:fs';
    
    rename('oldFile.txt', 'newFile.txt', (err) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log('Rename complete!');
    }); copy

#### `fs.rmdir(path[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v16.0.0 | Using `fs.rmdir(path, { recursive: true })` on a `path` that is a file is no longer permitted and results in an `ENOENT` error on Windows and an `ENOTDIR` error on POSIX.  
v16.0.0 | Using `fs.rmdir(path, { recursive: true })` on a `path` that does not exist is no longer permitted and results in a `ENOENT` error.  
v16.0.0 | The `recursive` option is deprecated, using it triggers a deprecation warning.  
v14.14.0 | The `recursive` option is deprecated, use `fs.rm` instead.  
v13.3.0, v12.16.0 | The `maxBusyTries` option is renamed to `maxRetries`, and its default is 0. The `emfileWait` option has been removed, and `EMFILE` errors use the same retry logic as other errors. The `retryDelay` option is now supported. `ENFILE` errors are now retried.  
v12.10.0 | The `recursive`, `maxBusyTries`, and `emfileWait` options are now supported.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameters can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.0.2 | Added in: v0.0.2  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `maxRetries` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) If an `EBUSY`, `EMFILE`, `ENFILE`, `ENOTEMPTY`, or `EPERM` error is encountered, Node.js retries the operation with a linear backoff wait of `retryDelay` milliseconds longer on each try. This option represents the number of retries. This option is ignored if the `recursive` option is not `true`. **Default:** `0`.
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, perform a recursive directory removal. In recursive mode, operations are retried on failure. **Default:** `false`. **Deprecated.**
    * `retryDelay` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The amount of time in milliseconds to wait between retries. This option is ignored if the `recursive` option is not `true`. **Default:** `100`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Asynchronous [`rmdir(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/rmdir.2.html).
No arguments other than a possible exception are given to the completion
callback.

Using `fs.rmdir()` on a file (not a directory) results in an `ENOENT` error on
Windows and an `ENOTDIR` error on POSIX.

To get a behavior similar to the `rm -rf` Unix command, use `fs.rm()` with
options `{ recursive: true, force: true }`.

#### `fs.rm(path[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.3.0, v16.14.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v14.14.0 | Added in: v14.14.0  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `force` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, exceptions will be ignored if `path` does not exist. **Default:** `false`.
    * `maxRetries` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) If an `EBUSY`, `EMFILE`, `ENFILE`, `ENOTEMPTY`, or `EPERM` error is encountered, Node.js will retry the operation with a linear backoff wait of `retryDelay` milliseconds longer on each try. This option represents the number of retries. This option is ignored if the `recursive` option is not `true`. **Default:** `0`.
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, perform a recursive removal. In recursive mode operations are retried on failure. **Default:** `false`.
    * `retryDelay` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The amount of time in milliseconds to wait between retries. This option is ignored if the `recursive` option is not `true`. **Default:** `100`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Asynchronously removes files and directories (modeled on the standard POSIX
`rm` utility). No arguments other than a possible exception are given to the
completion callback.

#### `fs.stat(path[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.5.0 | Accepts an additional `options` object to specify whether the numeric values returned should be bigint.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.0.2 | Added in: v0.0.2  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `bigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether the numeric values in the returned <fs.Stats> object should be `bigint`. **Default:** `false`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `stats` <fs.Stats>

Asynchronous [`stat(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/stat.2.html).
The callback gets two arguments `(err, stats)` where `stats` is an <fs.Stats>
object.

In case of an error, the `err.code` will be one of Common System Errors.

`fs.stat()` follows symbolic links. Use `fs.lstat()` to look at the links
themselves.

Using `fs.stat()` to check for the existence of a file before calling
`fs.open()`, `fs.readFile()`, or `fs.writeFile()` is not recommended. Instead,
user code should open/read/write the file directly and handle the error raised
if the file is not available.

To check if a file exists without manipulating it afterwards, `fs.access()` is
recommended.

For example, given the following directory structure:

    
    
    - txtDir
    -- file.txt
    - app.js copy

The next program will check for the stats of the given paths:

    
    
    import { stat } from 'node:fs';
    
    const pathsToCheck = ['./txtDir', './txtDir/file.txt'];
    
    for (let i = 0; i < pathsToCheck.length; i++) {
      stat(pathsToCheck[i], (err, stats) => {
        console.log(stats.isDirectory());
        console.log(stats);
      });
    } copy

The resulting output will resemble:

    
    
    true
    Stats {
      dev: 16777220,
      mode: 16877,
      nlink: 3,
      uid: 501,
      gid: 20,
      rdev: 0,
      blksize: 4096,
      ino: 14214262,
      size: 96,
      blocks: 0,
      atimeMs: 1561174653071.963,
      mtimeMs: 1561174614583.3518,
      ctimeMs: 1561174626623.5366,
      birthtimeMs: 1561174126937.2893,
      atime: 2019-06-22T03:37:33.072Z,
      mtime: 2019-06-22T03:36:54.583Z,
      ctime: 2019-06-22T03:37:06.624Z,
      birthtime: 2019-06-22T03:28:46.937Z
    }
    false
    Stats {
      dev: 16777220,
      mode: 33188,
      nlink: 1,
      uid: 501,
      gid: 20,
      rdev: 0,
      blksize: 4096,
      ino: 14214074,
      size: 8,
      blocks: 8,
      atimeMs: 1561174616618.8555,
      mtimeMs: 1561174614584,
      ctimeMs: 1561174614583.8145,
      birthtimeMs: 1561174007710.7478,
      atime: 2019-06-22T03:36:56.619Z,
      mtime: 2019-06-22T03:36:54.584Z,
      ctime: 2019-06-22T03:36:54.584Z,
      birthtime: 2019-06-22T03:26:47.711Z
    } copy

#### `fs.statfs(path[, options], callback)`#

Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `bigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether the numeric values in the returned <fs.StatFs> object should be `bigint`. **Default:** `false`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `stats` <fs.StatFs>

Asynchronous [`statfs(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/statfs.2.html). Returns information about the mounted file system
which contains `path`. The callback gets two arguments `(err, stats)` where
`stats` is an <fs.StatFs> object.

In case of an error, the `err.code` will be one of Common System Errors.

#### `fs.symlink(target, path[, type], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v12.0.0 | If the `type` argument is left undefined, Node will autodetect `target` type and automatically select `dir` or `file`.  
v7.6.0 | The `target` and `path` parameters can be WHATWG `URL` objects using `file:` protocol. Support is currently still _experimental_.  
v0.1.31 | Added in: v0.1.31  
  
  * `target` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Creates the link called `path` pointing to `target`. No arguments other than a
possible exception are given to the completion callback.

See the POSIX [`symlink(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/symlink.2.html) documentation for more details.

The `type` argument is only available on Windows and ignored on other
platforms. It can be set to `'dir'`, `'file'`, or `'junction'`. If the `type`
argument is `null`, Node.js will autodetect `target` type and use `'file'` or
`'dir'`. If the `target` does not exist, `'file'` will be used. Windows
junction points require the destination path to be absolute. When using
`'junction'`, the `target` argument will automatically be normalized to
absolute path. Junction points on NTFS volumes can only point to directories.

Relative targets are relative to the link's parent directory.

    
    
    import { symlink } from 'node:fs';
    
    symlink('./mew', './mewtwo', callback); copy

The above example creates a symbolic link `mewtwo` which points to `mew` in
the same directory:

    
    
    $ tree .
    .
    ├── mew
    └── mewtwo -> ./mew copy

#### `fs.truncate(path[, len], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v16.0.0 | The error returned may be an `AggregateError` if more than one error is returned.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.8.6 | Added in: v0.8.6  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `len` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) | [<AggregateError>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/AggregateError)

Truncates the file. No arguments other than a possible exception are given to
the completion callback. A file descriptor can also be passed as the first
argument. In this case, `fs.ftruncate()` is called.

    
    
    import { truncate } from 'node:fs';
    // Assuming that 'path/file.txt' is a regular file.
    truncate('path/file.txt', (err) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log('path/file.txt was truncated');
    });const { truncate } = require('node:fs');
    // Assuming that 'path/file.txt' is a regular file.
    truncate('path/file.txt', (err) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log('path/file.txt was truncated');
    });copy

Passing a file descriptor is deprecated and may result in an error being
thrown in the future.

See the POSIX [`truncate(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/truncate.2.html) documentation for more details.

#### `fs.unlink(path, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.0.2 | Added in: v0.0.2  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Asynchronously removes a file or symbolic link. No arguments other than a
possible exception are given to the completion callback.

    
    
    import { unlink } from 'node:fs';
    // Assuming that 'path/file.txt' is a regular file.
    unlink('path/file.txt', (err) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log('path/file.txt was deleted');
    }); copy

`fs.unlink()` will not work on a directory, empty or otherwise. To remove a
directory, use `fs.rmdir()`.

See the POSIX [`unlink(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/unlink.2.html) documentation for more details.

#### `fs.unwatchFile(filename[, listener])`#

Added in: v0.1.31

  * `filename` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Optional, a listener previously attached using `fs.watchFile()`

Stop watching for changes on `filename`. If `listener` is specified, only that
particular listener is removed. Otherwise, _all_ listeners are removed,
effectively stopping watching of `filename`.

Calling `fs.unwatchFile()` with a filename that is not being watched is a no-
op, not an error.

Using `fs.watch()` is more efficient than `fs.watchFile()` and
`fs.unwatchFile()`. `fs.watch()` should be used instead of `fs.watchFile()`
and `fs.unwatchFile()` when possible.

#### `fs.utimes(path, atime, mtime, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v8.0.0 | `NaN`, `Infinity`, and `-Infinity` are no longer valid time specifiers.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v4.1.0 | Numeric strings, `NaN`, and `Infinity` are now allowed time specifiers.  
v0.4.2 | Added in: v0.4.2  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `atime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)
  * `mtime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Change the file system timestamps of the object referenced by `path`.

The `atime` and `mtime` arguments follow these rules:

  * Values can be either numbers representing Unix epoch time in seconds, `Date`s, or a numeric string like `'123456789.0'`.
  * If the value can not be converted to a number, or is `NaN`, `Infinity`, or `-Infinity`, an `Error` will be thrown.

#### `fs.watch(filename[, options][, listener])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.1.0 | Added recursive support for Linux, AIX and IBMi.  
v15.9.0, v14.17.0 | Added support for closing the watcher with an AbortSignal.  
v7.6.0 | The `filename` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v7.0.0 | The passed `options` object will never be modified.  
v0.5.10 | Added in: v0.5.10  
  
  * `filename` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `persistent` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Indicates whether the process should continue to run as long as files are being watched. **Default:** `true`.
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Indicates whether all subdirectories should be watched, or only the current directory. This applies when a directory is specified, and only on supported platforms (See caveats). **Default:** `false`.
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Specifies the character encoding to be used for the filename passed to the listener. **Default:** `'utf8'`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows closing the watcher with an AbortSignal.
  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) **Default:** `undefined`
    * `eventType` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `filename` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type)
  * Returns: <fs.FSWatcher>

Watch for changes on `filename`, where `filename` is either a file or a
directory.

The second argument is optional. If `options` is provided as a string, it
specifies the `encoding`. Otherwise `options` should be passed as an object.

The listener callback gets two arguments `(eventType, filename)`. `eventType`
is either `'rename'` or `'change'`, and `filename` is the name of the file
which triggered the event.

On most platforms, `'rename'` is emitted whenever a filename appears or
disappears in the directory.

The listener callback is attached to the `'change'` event fired by
<fs.FSWatcher>, but it is not the same thing as the `'change'` value of
`eventType`.

If a `signal` is passed, aborting the corresponding AbortController will close
the returned <fs.FSWatcher>.

##### Caveats#

The `fs.watch` API is not 100% consistent across platforms, and is unavailable
in some situations.

On Windows, no events will be emitted if the watched directory is moved or
renamed. An `EPERM` error is reported when the watched directory is deleted.

The `fs.watch` API does not provide any protection with respect to malicious
actions on the file system. For example, on Windows it is implemented by
monitoring changes in a directory versus specific files. This allows
substitution of a file and fs reporting changes on the new file with the same
filename.

###### Availability#

This feature depends on the underlying operating system providing a way to be
notified of file system changes.

  * On Linux systems, this uses [`inotify(7)`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/inotify.7.html).
  * On BSD systems, this uses [`kqueue(2)`](https://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=kqueue&sektion=2).
  * On macOS, this uses [`kqueue(2)`](https://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=kqueue&sektion=2) for files and [`FSEvents`](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coreservices/file_system_events) for directories.
  * On SunOS systems (including Solaris and SmartOS), this uses [`event ports`](https://illumos.org/man/port_create).
  * On Windows systems, this feature depends on [`ReadDirectoryChangesW`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/api/winbase/nf-winbase-readdirectorychangesw).
  * On AIX systems, this feature depends on [`AHAFS`](https://developer.ibm.com/articles/au-aix_event_infrastructure/), which must be enabled.
  * On IBM i systems, this feature is not supported.

If the underlying functionality is not available for some reason, then
`fs.watch()` will not be able to function and may throw an exception. For
example, watching files or directories can be unreliable, and in some cases
impossible, on network file systems (NFS, SMB, etc) or host file systems when
using virtualization software such as Vagrant or Docker.

It is still possible to use `fs.watchFile()`, which uses stat polling, but
this method is slower and less reliable.

###### Inodes#

On Linux and macOS systems, `fs.watch()` resolves the path to an
[inode](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inode) and watches the inode. If the
watched path is deleted and recreated, it is assigned a new inode. The watch
will emit an event for the delete but will continue watching the _original_
inode. Events for the new inode will not be emitted. This is expected
behavior.

AIX files retain the same inode for the lifetime of a file. Saving and closing
a watched file on AIX will result in two notifications (one for adding new
content, and one for truncation).

###### Filename argument#

Providing `filename` argument in the callback is only supported on Linux,
macOS, Windows, and AIX. Even on supported platforms, `filename` is not always
guaranteed to be provided. Therefore, don't assume that `filename` argument is
always provided in the callback, and have some fallback logic if it is `null`.

    
    
    import { watch } from 'node:fs';
    watch('somedir', (eventType, filename) => {
      console.log(`event type is: ${eventType}`);
      if (filename) {
        console.log(`filename provided: ${filename}`);
      } else {
        console.log('filename not provided');
      }
    }); copy

#### `fs.watchFile(filename[, options], listener)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.5.0 | The `bigint` option is now supported.  
v7.6.0 | The `filename` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v0.1.31 | Added in: v0.1.31  
  
  * `filename` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `bigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`
    * `persistent` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `true`
    * `interval` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `5007`
  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `current` <fs.Stats>
    * `previous` <fs.Stats>
  * Returns: <fs.StatWatcher>

Watch for changes on `filename`. The callback `listener` will be called each
time the file is accessed.

The `options` argument may be omitted. If provided, it should be an object.
The `options` object may contain a boolean named `persistent` that indicates
whether the process should continue to run as long as files are being watched.
The `options` object may specify an `interval` property indicating how often
the target should be polled in milliseconds.

The `listener` gets two arguments the current stat object and the previous
stat object:

    
    
    import { watchFile } from 'node:fs';
    
    watchFile('message.text', (curr, prev) => {
      console.log(`the current mtime is: ${curr.mtime}`);
      console.log(`the previous mtime was: ${prev.mtime}`);
    }); copy

These stat objects are instances of `fs.Stat`. If the `bigint` option is
`true`, the numeric values in these objects are specified as `BigInt`s.

To be notified when the file was modified, not just accessed, it is necessary
to compare `curr.mtimeMs` and `prev.mtimeMs`.

When an `fs.watchFile` operation results in an `ENOENT` error, it will invoke
the listener once, with all the fields zeroed (or, for dates, the Unix Epoch).
If the file is created later on, the listener will be called again, with the
latest stat objects. This is a change in functionality since v0.10.

Using `fs.watch()` is more efficient than `fs.watchFile` and `fs.unwatchFile`.
`fs.watch` should be used instead of `fs.watchFile` and `fs.unwatchFile` when
possible.

When a file being watched by `fs.watchFile()` disappears and reappears, then
the contents of `previous` in the second callback event (the file's
reappearance) will be the same as the contents of `previous` in the first
callback event (its disappearance).

This happens when:

  * the file is deleted, followed by a restore
  * the file is renamed and then renamed a second time back to its original name

#### `fs.write(fd, buffer, offset[, length[, position]], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v14.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter won't coerce unsupported input to strings anymore.  
v10.10.0 | The `buffer` parameter can now be any `TypedArray` or a `DataView`.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.4.0 | The `buffer` parameter can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v7.2.0 | The `offset` and `length` parameters are optional now.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.0.2 | Added in: v0.0.2  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`
  * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `buffer.byteLength - offset`
  * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `bytesWritten` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)

Write `buffer` to the file specified by `fd`.

`offset` determines the part of the buffer to be written, and `length` is an
integer specifying the number of bytes to write.

`position` refers to the offset from the beginning of the file where this data
should be written. If `typeof position !== 'number'`, the data will be written
at the current position. See [`pwrite(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/pwrite.2.html).

The callback will be given three arguments `(err, bytesWritten, buffer)` where
`bytesWritten` specifies how many _bytes_ were written from `buffer`.

If this method is invoked as its `util.promisify()`ed version, it returns a
promise for an `Object` with `bytesWritten` and `buffer` properties.

It is unsafe to use `fs.write()` multiple times on the same file without
waiting for the callback. For this scenario, `fs.createWriteStream()` is
recommended.

On Linux, positional writes don't work when the file is opened in append mode.
The kernel ignores the position argument and always appends the data to the
end of the file.

#### `fs.write(fd, buffer[, options], callback)`#

Added in: v18.3.0, v16.17.0

  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`
    * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `buffer.byteLength - offset`
    * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `null`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `bytesWritten` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)

Write `buffer` to the file specified by `fd`.

Similar to the above `fs.write` function, this version takes an optional
`options` object. If no `options` object is specified, it will default with
the above values.

#### `fs.write(fd, string[, position[, encoding]], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | Passing to the `string` parameter an object with an own `toString` function is no longer supported.  
v17.8.0 | Passing to the `string` parameter an object with an own `toString` function is deprecated.  
v14.12.0 | The `string` parameter will stringify an object with an explicit `toString` function.  
v14.0.0 | The `string` parameter won't coerce unsupported input to strings anymore.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.2.0 | The `position` parameter is optional now.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v0.11.5 | Added in: v0.11.5  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `string` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `written` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `string` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Write `string` to the file specified by `fd`. If `string` is not a string, an
exception is thrown.

`position` refers to the offset from the beginning of the file where this data
should be written. If `typeof position !== 'number'` the data will be written
at the current position. See [`pwrite(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/pwrite.2.html).

`encoding` is the expected string encoding.

The callback will receive the arguments `(err, written, string)` where
`written` specifies how many _bytes_ the passed string required to be written.
Bytes written is not necessarily the same as string characters written. See
`Buffer.byteLength`.

It is unsafe to use `fs.write()` multiple times on the same file without
waiting for the callback. For this scenario, `fs.createWriteStream()` is
recommended.

On Linux, positional writes don't work when the file is opened in append mode.
The kernel ignores the position argument and always appends the data to the
end of the file.

On Windows, if the file descriptor is connected to the console (e.g. `fd == 1`
or `stdout`) a string containing non-ASCII characters will not be rendered
properly by default, regardless of the encoding used. It is possible to
configure the console to render UTF-8 properly by changing the active codepage
with the `chcp 65001` command. See the [chcp](https://ss64.com/nt/chcp.html)
docs for more details.

#### `fs.writeFile(file, data[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0, v20.10.0 | The `flush` option is now supported.  
v19.0.0 | Passing to the `string` parameter an object with an own `toString` function is no longer supported.  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v17.8.0 | Passing to the `string` parameter an object with an own `toString` function is deprecated.  
v16.0.0 | The error returned may be an `AggregateError` if more than one error is returned.  
v15.2.0, v14.17.0 | The options argument may include an AbortSignal to abort an ongoing writeFile request.  
v14.12.0 | The `data` parameter will stringify an object with an explicit `toString` function.  
v14.0.0 | The `data` parameter won't coerce unsupported input to strings anymore.  
v10.10.0 | The `data` parameter can now be any `TypedArray` or a `DataView`.  
v10.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will throw a `TypeError` at runtime.  
v7.4.0 | The `data` parameter can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v7.0.0 | The `callback` parameter is no longer optional. Not passing it will emit a deprecation warning with id DEP0013.  
v5.0.0 | The `file` parameter can be a file descriptor now.  
v0.1.29 | Added in: v0.1.29  
  
  * `file` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL> | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) filename or file descriptor
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0o666`
    * `flag` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See support of file system `flags`. **Default:** `'w'`.
    * `flush` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If all data is successfully written to the file, and `flush` is `true`, `fs.fsync()` is used to flush the data. **Default:** `false`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows aborting an in-progress writeFile
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) | [<AggregateError>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/AggregateError)

When `file` is a filename, asynchronously writes data to the file, replacing
the file if it already exists. `data` can be a string or a buffer.

When `file` is a file descriptor, the behavior is similar to calling
`fs.write()` directly (which is recommended). See the notes below on using a
file descriptor.

The `encoding` option is ignored if `data` is a buffer.

The `mode` option only affects the newly created file. See `fs.open()` for
more details.

    
    
    import { writeFile } from 'node:fs';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const data = new Uint8Array(Buffer.from('Hello Node.js'));
    writeFile('message.txt', data, (err) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log('The file has been saved!');
    }); copy

If `options` is a string, then it specifies the encoding:

    
    
    import { writeFile } from 'node:fs';
    
    writeFile('message.txt', 'Hello Node.js', 'utf8', callback); copy

It is unsafe to use `fs.writeFile()` multiple times on the same file without
waiting for the callback. For this scenario, `fs.createWriteStream()` is
recommended.

Similarly to `fs.readFile` \- `fs.writeFile` is a convenience method that
performs multiple `write` calls internally to write the buffer passed to it.
For performance sensitive code consider using `fs.createWriteStream()`.

It is possible to use an <AbortSignal> to cancel an `fs.writeFile()`.
Cancelation is "best effort", and some amount of data is likely still to be
written.

    
    
    import { writeFile } from 'node:fs';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const controller = new AbortController();
    const { signal } = controller;
    const data = new Uint8Array(Buffer.from('Hello Node.js'));
    writeFile('message.txt', data, { signal }, (err) => {
      // When a request is aborted - the callback is called with an AbortError
    });
    // When the request should be aborted
    controller.abort(); copy

Aborting an ongoing request does not abort individual operating system
requests but rather the internal buffering `fs.writeFile` performs.

##### Using `fs.writeFile()` with file descriptors#

When `file` is a file descriptor, the behavior is almost identical to directly
calling `fs.write()` like:

    
    
    import { write } from 'node:fs';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    write(fd, Buffer.from(data, options.encoding), callback); copy

The difference from directly calling `fs.write()` is that under some unusual
conditions, `fs.write()` might write only part of the buffer and need to be
retried to write the remaining data, whereas `fs.writeFile()` retries until
the data is entirely written (or an error occurs).

The implications of this are a common source of confusion. In the file
descriptor case, the file is not replaced! The data is not necessarily written
to the beginning of the file, and the file's original data may remain before
and/or after the newly written data.

For example, if `fs.writeFile()` is called twice in a row, first to write the
string `'Hello'`, then to write the string `', World'`, the file would contain
`'Hello, World'`, and might contain some of the file's original data
(depending on the size of the original file, and the position of the file
descriptor). If a file name had been used instead of a descriptor, the file
would be guaranteed to contain only `', World'`.

#### `fs.writev(fd, buffers[, position], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v12.9.0 | Added in: v12.9.0  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `buffers` [<ArrayBufferView[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ArrayBufferView)
  * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `bytesWritten` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `buffers` [<ArrayBufferView[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ArrayBufferView)

Write an array of `ArrayBufferView`s to the file specified by `fd` using
`writev()`.

`position` is the offset from the beginning of the file where this data should
be written. If `typeof position !== 'number'`, the data will be written at the
current position.

The callback will be given three arguments: `err`, `bytesWritten`, and
`buffers`. `bytesWritten` is how many bytes were written from `buffers`.

If this method is `util.promisify()`ed, it returns a promise for an `Object`
with `bytesWritten` and `buffers` properties.

It is unsafe to use `fs.writev()` multiple times on the same file without
waiting for the callback. For this scenario, use `fs.createWriteStream()`.

On Linux, positional writes don't work when the file is opened in append mode.
The kernel ignores the position argument and always appends the data to the
end of the file.

### Synchronous API#

The synchronous APIs perform all operations synchronously, blocking the event
loop until the operation completes or fails.

#### `fs.accessSync(path[, mode])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `fs.constants.F_OK`

Synchronously tests a user's permissions for the file or directory specified by `path`. The `mode` argument is an optional integer that specifies the accessibility checks to be performed. `mode` should be either the value `fs.constants.F_OK` or a mask consisting of the bitwise OR of any of `fs.constants.R_OK`, `fs.constants.W_OK`, and `fs.constants.X_OK` (e.g. `fs.constants.W_OK | fs.constants.R_OK`). Check File access constants for possible values of `mode`.

If any of the accessibility checks fail, an `Error` will be thrown. Otherwise,
the method will return `undefined`.

    
    
    import { accessSync, constants } from 'node:fs';
    
    try {
      accessSync('etc/passwd', constants.R_OK | constants.W_OK);
      console.log('can read/write');
    } catch (err) {
      console.error('no access!');
    } copy

#### `fs.appendFileSync(path, data[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.1.0, v20.10.0 | The `flush` option is now supported.  
v7.0.0 | The passed `options` object will never be modified.  
v5.0.0 | The `file` parameter can be a file descriptor now.  
v0.6.7 | Added in: v0.6.7  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL> | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) filename or file descriptor
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0o666`
    * `flag` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See support of file system `flags`. **Default:** `'a'`.
    * `flush` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, the underlying file descriptor is flushed prior to closing it. **Default:** `false`.

Synchronously append data to a file, creating the file if it does not yet
exist. `data` can be a string or a <Buffer>.

The `mode` option only affects the newly created file. See `fs.open()` for
more details.

    
    
    import { appendFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    try {
      appendFileSync('message.txt', 'data to append');
      console.log('The "data to append" was appended to file!');
    } catch (err) {
      /* Handle the error */
    } copy

If `options` is a string, then it specifies the encoding:

    
    
    import { appendFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    appendFileSync('message.txt', 'data to append', 'utf8'); copy

The `path` may be specified as a numeric file descriptor that has been opened
for appending (using `fs.open()` or `fs.openSync()`). The file descriptor will
not be closed automatically.

    
    
    import { openSync, closeSync, appendFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    let fd;
    
    try {
      fd = openSync('message.txt', 'a');
      appendFileSync(fd, 'data to append', 'utf8');
    } catch (err) {
      /* Handle the error */
    } finally {
      if (fd !== undefined)
        closeSync(fd);
    } copy

#### `fs.chmodSync(path, mode)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v0.6.7 | Added in: v0.6.7  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `mode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

For detailed information, see the documentation of the asynchronous version of
this API: `fs.chmod()`.

See the POSIX [`chmod(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/chmod.2.html)
documentation for more detail.

#### `fs.chownSync(path, uid, gid)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v0.1.97 | Added in: v0.1.97  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `uid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `gid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Synchronously changes owner and group of a file. Returns `undefined`. This is
the synchronous version of `fs.chown()`.

See the POSIX [`chown(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/chown.2.html)
documentation for more detail.

#### `fs.closeSync(fd)`#

Added in: v0.1.21

  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Closes the file descriptor. Returns `undefined`.

Calling `fs.closeSync()` on any file descriptor (`fd`) that is currently in
use through any other `fs` operation may lead to undefined behavior.

See the POSIX [`close(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/close.2.html)
documentation for more detail.

#### `fs.copyFileSync(src, dest[, mode])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | Changed `flags` argument to `mode` and imposed stricter type validation.  
v8.5.0 | Added in: v8.5.0  
  
  * `src` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL> source filename to copy
  * `dest` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL> destination filename of the copy operation
  * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) modifiers for copy operation. **Default:** `0`.

Synchronously copies `src` to `dest`. By default, `dest` is overwritten if it
already exists. Returns `undefined`. Node.js makes no guarantees about the
atomicity of the copy operation. If an error occurs after the destination file
has been opened for writing, Node.js will attempt to remove the destination.

`mode` is an optional integer that specifies the behavior of the copy operation. It is possible to create a mask consisting of the bitwise OR of two or more values (e.g. `fs.constants.COPYFILE_EXCL | fs.constants.COPYFILE_FICLONE`).

  * `fs.constants.COPYFILE_EXCL`: The copy operation will fail if `dest` already exists.
  * `fs.constants.COPYFILE_FICLONE`: The copy operation will attempt to create a copy-on-write reflink. If the platform does not support copy-on-write, then a fallback copy mechanism is used.
  * `fs.constants.COPYFILE_FICLONE_FORCE`: The copy operation will attempt to create a copy-on-write reflink. If the platform does not support copy-on-write, then the operation will fail.

    
    
    import { copyFileSync, constants } from 'node:fs';
    
    // destination.txt will be created or overwritten by default.
    copyFileSync('source.txt', 'destination.txt');
    console.log('source.txt was copied to destination.txt');
    
    // By using COPYFILE_EXCL, the operation will fail if destination.txt exists.
    copyFileSync('source.txt', 'destination.txt', constants.COPYFILE_EXCL); copy

#### `fs.cpSync(src, dest[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.3.0 | This API is no longer experimental.  
v20.1.0, v18.17.0 | Accept an additional `mode` option to specify the copy behavior as the `mode` argument of `fs.copyFile()`.  
v17.6.0, v16.15.0 | Accepts an additional `verbatimSymlinks` option to specify whether to perform path resolution for symlinks.  
v16.7.0 | Added in: v16.7.0  
  
  * `src` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> source path to copy.
  * `dest` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> destination path to copy to.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `dereference` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) dereference symlinks. **Default:** `false`.
    * `errorOnExist` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) when `force` is `false`, and the destination exists, throw an error. **Default:** `false`.
    * `filter` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Function to filter copied files/directories. Return `true` to copy the item, `false` to ignore it. When ignoring a directory, all of its contents will be skipped as well. **Default:** `undefined`
      * `src` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) source path to copy.
      * `dest` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) destination path to copy to.
      * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Any non-`Promise` value that is coercible to `boolean`.
    * `force` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) overwrite existing file or directory. The copy operation will ignore errors if you set this to false and the destination exists. Use the `errorOnExist` option to change this behavior. **Default:** `true`.
    * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) modifiers for copy operation. **Default:** `0`. See `mode` flag of `fs.copyFileSync()`.
    * `preserveTimestamps` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true` timestamps from `src` will be preserved. **Default:** `false`.
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) copy directories recursively **Default:** `false`
    * `verbatimSymlinks` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, path resolution for symlinks will be skipped. **Default:** `false`

Synchronously copies the entire directory structure from `src` to `dest`,
including subdirectories and files.

When copying a directory to another directory, globs are not supported and
behavior is similar to `cp dir1/ dir2/`.

#### `fs.existsSync(path)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the path exists, `false` otherwise.

For detailed information, see the documentation of the asynchronous version of
this API: `fs.exists()`.

`fs.exists()` is deprecated, but `fs.existsSync()` is not. The `callback`
parameter to `fs.exists()` accepts parameters that are inconsistent with other
Node.js callbacks. `fs.existsSync()` does not use a callback.

    
    
    import { existsSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    if (existsSync('/etc/passwd'))
      console.log('The path exists.'); copy

#### `fs.fchmodSync(fd, mode)`#

Added in: v0.4.7

  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `mode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Sets the permissions on the file. Returns `undefined`.

See the POSIX [`fchmod(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/fchmod.2.html) documentation for more detail.

#### `fs.fchownSync(fd, uid, gid)`#

Added in: v0.4.7

  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `uid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The file's new owner's user id.
  * `gid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The file's new group's group id.

Sets the owner of the file. Returns `undefined`.

See the POSIX [`fchown(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/fchown.2.html) documentation for more detail.

#### `fs.fdatasyncSync(fd)`#

Added in: v0.1.96

  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Forces all currently queued I/O operations associated with the file to the
operating system's synchronized I/O completion state. Refer to the POSIX
[`fdatasync(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/fdatasync.2.html)
documentation for details. Returns `undefined`.

#### `fs.fstatSync(fd[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.5.0 | Accepts an additional `options` object to specify whether the numeric values returned should be bigint.  
v0.1.95 | Added in: v0.1.95  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `bigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether the numeric values in the returned <fs.Stats> object should be `bigint`. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: <fs.Stats>

Retrieves the <fs.Stats> for the file descriptor.

See the POSIX [`fstat(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/fstat.2.html)
documentation for more detail.

#### `fs.fsyncSync(fd)`#

Added in: v0.1.96

  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Request that all data for the open file descriptor is flushed to the storage
device. The specific implementation is operating system and device specific.
Refer to the POSIX [`fsync(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/fsync.2.html) documentation for more detail. Returns `undefined`.

#### `fs.ftruncateSync(fd[, len])`#

Added in: v0.8.6

  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `len` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`

Truncates the file descriptor. Returns `undefined`.

For detailed information, see the documentation of the asynchronous version of
this API: `fs.ftruncate()`.

#### `fs.futimesSync(fd, atime, mtime)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v4.1.0 | Numeric strings, `NaN`, and `Infinity` are now allowed time specifiers.  
v0.4.2 | Added in: v0.4.2  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `atime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)
  * `mtime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)

Synchronous version of `fs.futimes()`. Returns `undefined`.

#### `fs.globSync(pattern[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.7.0 | Add support for `exclude` option to accept glob patterns.  
v22.2.0 | Add support for `withFileTypes` as an option.  
v22.0.0 | Added in: v22.0.0  
  
Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `pattern` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `cwd` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) current working directory. **Default:** `process.cwd()`
    * `exclude` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Function to filter out files/directories or a list of glob patterns to be excluded. If a function is provided, return `true` to exclude the item, `false` to include it. **Default:** `undefined`.
    * `withFileTypes` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the glob should return paths as Dirents, `false` otherwise. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) paths of files that match the pattern.

    
    
    import { globSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    console.log(globSync('**/*.js'));const { globSync } = require('node:fs');
    
    console.log(globSync('**/*.js'));copy

#### `fs.lchmodSync(path, mode)`#

Deprecated since: v0.4.7

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Changes the permissions on a symbolic link. Returns `undefined`.

This method is only implemented on macOS.

See the POSIX
[`lchmod(2)`](https://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=lchmod&sektion=2)
documentation for more detail.

#### `fs.lchownSync(path, uid, gid)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.6.0 | This API is no longer deprecated.  
v0.4.7 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `uid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The file's new owner's user id.
  * `gid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The file's new group's group id.

Set the owner for the path. Returns `undefined`.

See the POSIX [`lchown(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/lchown.2.html) documentation for more details.

#### `fs.lutimesSync(path, atime, mtime)`#

Added in: v14.5.0, v12.19.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `atime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)
  * `mtime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)

Change the file system timestamps of the symbolic link referenced by `path`.
Returns `undefined`, or throws an exception when parameters are incorrect or
the operation fails. This is the synchronous version of `fs.lutimes()`.

#### `fs.linkSync(existingPath, newPath)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v7.6.0 | The `existingPath` and `newPath` parameters can be WHATWG `URL` objects using `file:` protocol. Support is currently still _experimental_.  
v0.1.31 | Added in: v0.1.31  
  
  * `existingPath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `newPath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>

Creates a new link from the `existingPath` to the `newPath`. See the POSIX
[`link(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/link.2.html) documentation
for more detail. Returns `undefined`.

#### `fs.lstatSync(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.3.0, v14.17.0 | Accepts a `throwIfNoEntry` option to specify whether an exception should be thrown if the entry does not exist.  
v10.5.0 | Accepts an additional `options` object to specify whether the numeric values returned should be bigint.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v0.1.30 | Added in: v0.1.30  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `bigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether the numeric values in the returned <fs.Stats> object should be `bigint`. **Default:** `false`.
    * `throwIfNoEntry` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether an exception will be thrown if no file system entry exists, rather than returning `undefined`. **Default:** `true`.
  * Returns: <fs.Stats>

Retrieves the <fs.Stats> for the symbolic link referred to by `path`.

See the POSIX [`lstat(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/lstat.2.html)
documentation for more details.

#### `fs.mkdirSync(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.11.0, v12.17.0 | In `recursive` mode, the first created path is returned now.  
v10.12.0 | The second argument can now be an `options` object with `recursive` and `mode` properties.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`
    * `mode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Not supported on Windows. **Default:** `0o777`.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

Synchronously creates a directory. Returns `undefined`, or if `recursive` is
`true`, the first directory path created. This is the synchronous version of
`fs.mkdir()`.

See the POSIX [`mkdir(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/mkdir.2.html)
documentation for more details.

#### `fs.mkdtempSync(prefix[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.6.0, v18.19.0 | The `prefix` parameter now accepts buffers and URL.  
v16.5.0, v14.18.0 | The `prefix` parameter now accepts an empty string.  
v5.10.0 | Added in: v5.10.0  
  
  * `prefix` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the created directory path.

For detailed information, see the documentation of the asynchronous version of
this API: `fs.mkdtemp()`.

The optional `options` argument can be a string specifying an encoding, or an
object with an `encoding` property specifying the character encoding to use.

#### `fs.opendirSync(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.1.0, v18.17.0 | Added `recursive` option.  
v13.1.0, v12.16.0 | The `bufferSize` option was introduced.  
v12.12.0 | Added in: v12.12.0  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `bufferSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of directory entries that are buffered internally when reading from the directory. Higher values lead to better performance but higher memory usage. **Default:** `32`
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`
  * Returns: <fs.Dir>

Synchronously open a directory. See [`opendir(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man3/opendir.3.html).

Creates an <fs.Dir>, which contains all further functions for reading from and
cleaning up the directory.

The `encoding` option sets the encoding for the `path` while opening the
directory and subsequent read operations.

#### `fs.openSync(path[, flags[, mode]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.1.0 | The `flags` argument is now optional and defaults to `'r'`.  
v9.9.0 | The `as` and `as+` flags are supported now.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `flags` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `'r'`. See support of file system `flags`.
  * `mode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0o666`
  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns an integer representing the file descriptor.

For detailed information, see the documentation of the asynchronous version of
this API: `fs.open()`.

#### `fs.readdirSync(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.1.0, v18.17.0 | Added `recursive` option.  
v10.10.0 | New option `withFileTypes` was added.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `withFileTypes` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, reads the contents of a directory recursively. In recursive mode, it will list all files, sub files, and directories. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer[]> | <fs.Dirent[]>

Reads the contents of the directory.

See the POSIX [`readdir(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man3/readdir.3.html) documentation for more details.

The optional `options` argument can be a string specifying an encoding, or an
object with an `encoding` property specifying the character encoding to use
for the filenames returned. If the `encoding` is set to `'buffer'`, the
filenames returned will be passed as <Buffer> objects.

If `options.withFileTypes` is set to `true`, the result will contain
<fs.Dirent> objects.

#### `fs.readFileSync(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v5.0.0 | The `path` parameter can be a file descriptor now.  
v0.1.8 | Added in: v0.1.8  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL> | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) filename or file descriptor
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
    * `flag` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See support of file system `flags`. **Default:** `'r'`.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>

Returns the contents of the `path`.

For detailed information, see the documentation of the asynchronous version of
this API: `fs.readFile()`.

If the `encoding` option is specified then this function returns a string.
Otherwise it returns a buffer.

Similar to `fs.readFile()`, when the path is a directory, the behavior of
`fs.readFileSync()` is platform-specific.

    
    
    import { readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    // macOS, Linux, and Windows
    readFileSync('<directory>');
    // => [Error: EISDIR: illegal operation on a directory, read <directory>]
    
    //  FreeBSD
    readFileSync('<directory>'); // => <data> copy

#### `fs.readlinkSync(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v0.1.31 | Added in: v0.1.31  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>

Returns the symbolic link's string value.

See the POSIX [`readlink(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/readlink.2.html) documentation for more details.

The optional `options` argument can be a string specifying an encoding, or an
object with an `encoding` property specifying the character encoding to use
for the link path returned. If the `encoding` is set to `'buffer'`, the link
path returned will be passed as a <Buffer> object.

#### `fs.readSync(fd, buffer, offset, length[, position])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.10.0 | The `buffer` parameter can now be any `TypedArray` or a `DataView`.  
v6.0.0 | The `length` parameter can now be `0`.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the number of `bytesRead`.

For detailed information, see the documentation of the asynchronous version of
this API: `fs.read()`.

#### `fs.readSync(fd, buffer[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.13.0, v12.17.0 | Options object can be passed in to make offset, length, and position optional.  
v13.13.0, v12.17.0 | Added in: v13.13.0, v12.17.0  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`
    * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `buffer.byteLength - offset`
    * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the number of `bytesRead`.

Similar to the above `fs.readSync` function, this version takes an optional
`options` object. If no `options` object is specified, it will default with
the above values.

For detailed information, see the documentation of the asynchronous version of
this API: `fs.read()`.

#### `fs.readvSync(fd, buffers[, position])`#

Added in: v13.13.0, v12.17.0

  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `buffers` [<ArrayBufferView[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ArrayBufferView)
  * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes read.

For detailed information, see the documentation of the asynchronous version of
this API: `fs.readv()`.

#### `fs.realpathSync(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | Pipe/Socket resolve support was added.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v6.4.0 | Calling `realpathSync` now works again for various edge cases on Windows.  
v6.0.0 | The `cache` parameter was removed.  
v0.1.31 | Added in: v0.1.31  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>

Returns the resolved pathname.

For detailed information, see the documentation of the asynchronous version of
this API: `fs.realpath()`.

#### `fs.realpathSync.native(path[, options])`#

Added in: v9.2.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>

Synchronous [`realpath(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man3/realpath.3.html).

Only paths that can be converted to UTF8 strings are supported.

The optional `options` argument can be a string specifying an encoding, or an
object with an `encoding` property specifying the character encoding to use
for the path returned. If the `encoding` is set to `'buffer'`, the path
returned will be passed as a <Buffer> object.

On Linux, when Node.js is linked against musl libc, the procfs file system
must be mounted on `/proc` in order for this function to work. Glibc does not
have this restriction.

#### `fs.renameSync(oldPath, newPath)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v7.6.0 | The `oldPath` and `newPath` parameters can be WHATWG `URL` objects using `file:` protocol. Support is currently still _experimental_.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `oldPath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `newPath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>

Renames the file from `oldPath` to `newPath`. Returns `undefined`.

See the POSIX [`rename(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/rename.2.html) documentation for more details.

#### `fs.rmdirSync(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | Using `fs.rmdirSync(path, { recursive: true })` on a `path` that is a file is no longer permitted and results in an `ENOENT` error on Windows and an `ENOTDIR` error on POSIX.  
v16.0.0 | Using `fs.rmdirSync(path, { recursive: true })` on a `path` that does not exist is no longer permitted and results in a `ENOENT` error.  
v16.0.0 | The `recursive` option is deprecated, using it triggers a deprecation warning.  
v14.14.0 | The `recursive` option is deprecated, use `fs.rmSync` instead.  
v13.3.0, v12.16.0 | The `maxBusyTries` option is renamed to `maxRetries`, and its default is 0. The `emfileWait` option has been removed, and `EMFILE` errors use the same retry logic as other errors. The `retryDelay` option is now supported. `ENFILE` errors are now retried.  
v12.10.0 | The `recursive`, `maxBusyTries`, and `emfileWait` options are now supported.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameters can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `maxRetries` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) If an `EBUSY`, `EMFILE`, `ENFILE`, `ENOTEMPTY`, or `EPERM` error is encountered, Node.js retries the operation with a linear backoff wait of `retryDelay` milliseconds longer on each try. This option represents the number of retries. This option is ignored if the `recursive` option is not `true`. **Default:** `0`.
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, perform a recursive directory removal. In recursive mode, operations are retried on failure. **Default:** `false`. **Deprecated.**
    * `retryDelay` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The amount of time in milliseconds to wait between retries. This option is ignored if the `recursive` option is not `true`. **Default:** `100`.

Synchronous [`rmdir(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/rmdir.2.html).
Returns `undefined`.

Using `fs.rmdirSync()` on a file (not a directory) results in an `ENOENT`
error on Windows and an `ENOTDIR` error on POSIX.

To get a behavior similar to the `rm -rf` Unix command, use `fs.rmSync()` with
options `{ recursive: true, force: true }`.

#### `fs.rmSync(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.3.0, v16.14.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v14.14.0 | Added in: v14.14.0  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `force` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, exceptions will be ignored if `path` does not exist. **Default:** `false`.
    * `maxRetries` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) If an `EBUSY`, `EMFILE`, `ENFILE`, `ENOTEMPTY`, or `EPERM` error is encountered, Node.js will retry the operation with a linear backoff wait of `retryDelay` milliseconds longer on each try. This option represents the number of retries. This option is ignored if the `recursive` option is not `true`. **Default:** `0`.
    * `recursive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, perform a recursive directory removal. In recursive mode operations are retried on failure. **Default:** `false`.
    * `retryDelay` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The amount of time in milliseconds to wait between retries. This option is ignored if the `recursive` option is not `true`. **Default:** `100`.

Synchronously removes files and directories (modeled on the standard POSIX
`rm` utility). Returns `undefined`.

#### `fs.statSync(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.3.0, v14.17.0 | Accepts a `throwIfNoEntry` option to specify whether an exception should be thrown if the entry does not exist.  
v10.5.0 | Accepts an additional `options` object to specify whether the numeric values returned should be bigint.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `bigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether the numeric values in the returned <fs.Stats> object should be `bigint`. **Default:** `false`.
    * `throwIfNoEntry` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether an exception will be thrown if no file system entry exists, rather than returning `undefined`. **Default:** `true`.
  * Returns: <fs.Stats>

Retrieves the <fs.Stats> for the path.

#### `fs.statfsSync(path[, options])`#

Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `bigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether the numeric values in the returned <fs.StatFs> object should be `bigint`. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: <fs.StatFs>

Synchronous [`statfs(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/statfs.2.html).
Returns information about the mounted file system which contains `path`.

In case of an error, the `err.code` will be one of Common System Errors.

#### `fs.symlinkSync(target, path[, type])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | If the `type` argument is left undefined, Node will autodetect `target` type and automatically select `dir` or `file`.  
v7.6.0 | The `target` and `path` parameters can be WHATWG `URL` objects using `file:` protocol. Support is currently still _experimental_.  
v0.1.31 | Added in: v0.1.31  
  
  * `target` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`

Returns `undefined`.

For detailed information, see the documentation of the asynchronous version of
this API: `fs.symlink()`.

#### `fs.truncateSync(path[, len])`#

Added in: v0.8.6

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `len` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`

Truncates the file. Returns `undefined`. A file descriptor can also be passed
as the first argument. In this case, `fs.ftruncateSync()` is called.

Passing a file descriptor is deprecated and may result in an error being
thrown in the future.

#### `fs.unlinkSync(path)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>

Synchronous [`unlink(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/unlink.2.html).
Returns `undefined`.

#### `fs.utimesSync(path, atime, mtime)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | `NaN`, `Infinity`, and `-Infinity` are no longer valid time specifiers.  
v7.6.0 | The `path` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v4.1.0 | Numeric strings, `NaN`, and `Infinity` are now allowed time specifiers.  
v0.4.2 | Added in: v0.4.2  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `atime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)
  * `mtime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)

Returns `undefined`.

For detailed information, see the documentation of the asynchronous version of
this API: `fs.utimes()`.

#### `fs.writeFileSync(file, data[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0, v20.10.0 | The `flush` option is now supported.  
v19.0.0 | Passing to the `data` parameter an object with an own `toString` function is no longer supported.  
v17.8.0 | Passing to the `data` parameter an object with an own `toString` function is deprecated.  
v14.12.0 | The `data` parameter will stringify an object with an explicit `toString` function.  
v14.0.0 | The `data` parameter won't coerce unsupported input to strings anymore.  
v10.10.0 | The `data` parameter can now be any `TypedArray` or a `DataView`.  
v7.4.0 | The `data` parameter can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v5.0.0 | The `file` parameter can be a file descriptor now.  
v0.1.29 | Added in: v0.1.29  
  
  * `file` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL> | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) filename or file descriptor
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
    * `mode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0o666`
    * `flag` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See support of file system `flags`. **Default:** `'w'`.
    * `flush` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If all data is successfully written to the file, and `flush` is `true`, `fs.fsyncSync()` is used to flush the data.

Returns `undefined`.

The `mode` option only affects the newly created file. See `fs.open()` for
more details.

For detailed information, see the documentation of the asynchronous version of
this API: `fs.writeFile()`.

#### `fs.writeSync(fd, buffer, offset[, length[, position]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter won't coerce unsupported input to strings anymore.  
v10.10.0 | The `buffer` parameter can now be any `TypedArray` or a `DataView`.  
v7.4.0 | The `buffer` parameter can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v7.2.0 | The `offset` and `length` parameters are optional now.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`
  * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `buffer.byteLength - offset`
  * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes written.

For detailed information, see the documentation of the asynchronous version of
this API: `fs.write(fd, buffer...)`.

#### `fs.writeSync(fd, buffer[, options])`#

Added in: v18.3.0, v16.17.0

  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`
    * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `buffer.byteLength - offset`
    * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `null`
  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes written.

For detailed information, see the documentation of the asynchronous version of
this API: `fs.write(fd, buffer...)`.

#### `fs.writeSync(fd, string[, position[, encoding]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | The `string` parameter won't coerce unsupported input to strings anymore.  
v7.2.0 | The `position` parameter is optional now.  
v0.11.5 | Added in: v0.11.5  
  
  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `string` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes written.

For detailed information, see the documentation of the asynchronous version of
this API: `fs.write(fd, string...)`.

#### `fs.writevSync(fd, buffers[, position])`#

Added in: v12.9.0

  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `buffers` [<ArrayBufferView[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ArrayBufferView)
  * `position` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes written.

For detailed information, see the documentation of the asynchronous version of
this API: `fs.writev()`.

### Common Objects#

The common objects are shared by all of the file system API variants (promise,
callback, and synchronous).

#### Class: `fs.Dir`#

Added in: v12.12.0

A class representing a directory stream.

Created by `fs.opendir()`, `fs.opendirSync()`, or `fsPromises.opendir()`.

    
    
    import { opendir } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    try {
      const dir = await opendir('./');
      for await (const dirent of dir)
        console.log(dirent.name);
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(err);
    } copy

When using the async iterator, the <fs.Dir> object will be automatically
closed after the iterator exits.

##### `dir.close()`#

Added in: v12.12.0

  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Asynchronously close the directory's underlying resource handle. Subsequent
reads will result in errors.

A promise is returned that will be fulfilled after the resource has been
closed.

##### `dir.close(callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v12.12.0 | Added in: v12.12.0  
  
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Asynchronously close the directory's underlying resource handle. Subsequent
reads will result in errors.

The `callback` will be called after the resource handle has been closed.

##### `dir.closeSync()`#

Added in: v12.12.0

Synchronously close the directory's underlying resource handle. Subsequent
reads will result in errors.

##### `dir.path`#

Added in: v12.12.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The read-only path of this directory as was provided to `fs.opendir()`,
`fs.opendirSync()`, or `fsPromises.opendir()`.

##### `dir.read()`#

Added in: v12.12.0

  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with a <fs.Dirent> | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type)

Asynchronously read the next directory entry via
[`readdir(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/readdir.3.html) as an
<fs.Dirent>.

A promise is returned that will be fulfilled with an <fs.Dirent>, or `null` if
there are no more directory entries to read.

Directory entries returned by this function are in no particular order as
provided by the operating system's underlying directory mechanisms. Entries
added or removed while iterating over the directory might not be included in
the iteration results.

##### `dir.read(callback)`#

Added in: v12.12.0

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `dirent` <fs.Dirent> | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type)

Asynchronously read the next directory entry via
[`readdir(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/readdir.3.html) as an
<fs.Dirent>.

After the read is completed, the `callback` will be called with an
<fs.Dirent>, or `null` if there are no more directory entries to read.

Directory entries returned by this function are in no particular order as
provided by the operating system's underlying directory mechanisms. Entries
added or removed while iterating over the directory might not be included in
the iteration results.

##### `dir.readSync()`#

Added in: v12.12.0

  * Returns: <fs.Dirent> | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type)

Synchronously read the next directory entry as an <fs.Dirent>. See the POSIX
[`readdir(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/readdir.3.html)
documentation for more detail.

If there are no more directory entries to read, `null` will be returned.

Directory entries returned by this function are in no particular order as
provided by the operating system's underlying directory mechanisms. Entries
added or removed while iterating over the directory might not be included in
the iteration results.

##### `dir[Symbol.asyncIterator]()`#

Added in: v12.12.0

  * Returns: [<AsyncIterator>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterator-interface) An AsyncIterator of <fs.Dirent>

Asynchronously iterates over the directory until all entries have been read.
Refer to the POSIX [`readdir(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man3/readdir.3.html) documentation for more detail.

Entries returned by the async iterator are always an <fs.Dirent>. The `null`
case from `dir.read()` is handled internally.

See <fs.Dir> for an example.

Directory entries returned by this iterator are in no particular order as
provided by the operating system's underlying directory mechanisms. Entries
added or removed while iterating over the directory might not be included in
the iteration results.

#### Class: `fs.Dirent`#

Added in: v10.10.0

A representation of a directory entry, which can be a file or a subdirectory
within the directory, as returned by reading from an <fs.Dir>. The directory
entry is a combination of the file name and file type pairs.

Additionally, when `fs.readdir()` or `fs.readdirSync()` is called with the
`withFileTypes` option set to `true`, the resulting array is filled with
<fs.Dirent> objects, rather than strings or <Buffer>s.

##### `dirent.isBlockDevice()`#

Added in: v10.10.0

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the <fs.Dirent> object describes a block device.

##### `dirent.isCharacterDevice()`#

Added in: v10.10.0

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the <fs.Dirent> object describes a character device.

##### `dirent.isDirectory()`#

Added in: v10.10.0

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the <fs.Dirent> object describes a file system directory.

##### `dirent.isFIFO()`#

Added in: v10.10.0

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the <fs.Dirent> object describes a first-in-first-out (FIFO)
pipe.

##### `dirent.isFile()`#

Added in: v10.10.0

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the <fs.Dirent> object describes a regular file.

##### `dirent.isSocket()`#

Added in: v10.10.0

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the <fs.Dirent> object describes a socket.

##### `dirent.isSymbolicLink()`#

Added in: v10.10.0

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the <fs.Dirent> object describes a symbolic link.

##### `dirent.name`#

Added in: v10.10.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>

The file name that this <fs.Dirent> object refers to. The type of this value
is determined by the `options.encoding` passed to `fs.readdir()` or
`fs.readdirSync()`.

##### `dirent.parentPath`#

Added in: v21.4.0, v20.12.0, v18.20.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The path to the parent directory of the file this <fs.Dirent> object refers
to.

##### `dirent.path`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.2.0 | The property is no longer read-only.  
v23.0.0 | Accessing this property emits a warning. It is now read-only.  
v21.5.0, v20.12.0, v18.20.0 | Deprecated since: v21.5.0, v20.12.0, v18.20.0  
v20.1.0, v18.17.0 | Added in: v20.1.0, v18.17.0  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `dirent.parentPath` instead.

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Alias for `dirent.parentPath`.

#### Class: `fs.FSWatcher`#

Added in: v0.5.8

  * Extends <EventEmitter>

A successful call to `fs.watch()` method will return a new <fs.FSWatcher>
object.

All <fs.FSWatcher> objects emit a `'change'` event whenever a specific watched
file is modified.

##### Event: `'change'`#

Added in: v0.5.8

  * `eventType` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The type of change event that has occurred
  * `filename` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> The filename that changed (if relevant/available)

Emitted when something changes in a watched directory or file. See more
details in `fs.watch()`.

The `filename` argument may not be provided depending on operating system
support. If `filename` is provided, it will be provided as a <Buffer> if
`fs.watch()` is called with its `encoding` option set to `'buffer'`, otherwise
`filename` will be a UTF-8 string.

    
    
    import { watch } from 'node:fs';
    // Example when handled through fs.watch() listener
    watch('./tmp', { encoding: 'buffer' }, (eventType, filename) => {
      if (filename) {
        console.log(filename);
        // Prints: <Buffer ...>
      }
    }); copy

##### Event: `'close'`#

Added in: v10.0.0

Emitted when the watcher stops watching for changes. The closed <fs.FSWatcher>
object is no longer usable in the event handler.

##### Event: `'error'`#

Added in: v0.5.8

  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Emitted when an error occurs while watching the file. The errored
<fs.FSWatcher> object is no longer usable in the event handler.

##### `watcher.close()`#

Added in: v0.5.8

Stop watching for changes on the given <fs.FSWatcher>. Once stopped, the
<fs.FSWatcher> object is no longer usable.

##### `watcher.ref()`#

Added in: v14.3.0, v12.20.0

  * Returns: <fs.FSWatcher>

When called, requests that the Node.js event loop _not_ exit so long as the
<fs.FSWatcher> is active. Calling `watcher.ref()` multiple times will have no
effect.

By default, all <fs.FSWatcher> objects are "ref'ed", making it normally
unnecessary to call `watcher.ref()` unless `watcher.unref()` had been called
previously.

##### `watcher.unref()`#

Added in: v14.3.0, v12.20.0

  * Returns: <fs.FSWatcher>

When called, the active <fs.FSWatcher> object will not require the Node.js
event loop to remain active. If there is no other activity keeping the event
loop running, the process may exit before the <fs.FSWatcher> object's callback
is invoked. Calling `watcher.unref()` multiple times will have no effect.

#### Class: `fs.StatWatcher`#

Added in: v14.3.0, v12.20.0

  * Extends <EventEmitter>

A successful call to `fs.watchFile()` method will return a new
<fs.StatWatcher> object.

##### `watcher.ref()`#

Added in: v14.3.0, v12.20.0

  * Returns: <fs.StatWatcher>

When called, requests that the Node.js event loop _not_ exit so long as the
<fs.StatWatcher> is active. Calling `watcher.ref()` multiple times will have
no effect.

By default, all <fs.StatWatcher> objects are "ref'ed", making it normally
unnecessary to call `watcher.ref()` unless `watcher.unref()` had been called
previously.

##### `watcher.unref()`#

Added in: v14.3.0, v12.20.0

  * Returns: <fs.StatWatcher>

When called, the active <fs.StatWatcher> object will not require the Node.js
event loop to remain active. If there is no other activity keeping the event
loop running, the process may exit before the <fs.StatWatcher> object's
callback is invoked. Calling `watcher.unref()` multiple times will have no
effect.

#### Class: `fs.ReadStream`#

Added in: v0.1.93

  * Extends: <stream.Readable>

Instances of <fs.ReadStream> are created and returned using the
`fs.createReadStream()` function.

##### Event: `'close'`#

Added in: v0.1.93

Emitted when the <fs.ReadStream>'s underlying file descriptor has been closed.

##### Event: `'open'`#

Added in: v0.1.93

  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Integer file descriptor used by the <fs.ReadStream>.

Emitted when the <fs.ReadStream>'s file descriptor has been opened.

##### Event: `'ready'`#

Added in: v9.11.0

Emitted when the <fs.ReadStream> is ready to be used.

Fires immediately after `'open'`.

##### `readStream.bytesRead`#

Added in: v6.4.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The number of bytes that have been read so far.

##### `readStream.path`#

Added in: v0.1.93

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer>

The path to the file the stream is reading from as specified in the first
argument to `fs.createReadStream()`. If `path` is passed as a string, then
`readStream.path` will be a string. If `path` is passed as a <Buffer>, then
`readStream.path` will be a <Buffer>. If `fd` is specified, then
`readStream.path` will be `undefined`.

##### `readStream.pending`#

Added in: v11.2.0, v10.16.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

This property is `true` if the underlying file has not been opened yet, i.e.
before the `'ready'` event is emitted.

#### Class: `fs.Stats`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0, v20.13.0 | Public constructor is deprecated.  
v8.1.0 | Added times as numbers.  
v0.1.21 | Added in: v0.1.21  
  
A <fs.Stats> object provides information about a file.

Objects returned from `fs.stat()`, `fs.lstat()`, `fs.fstat()`, and their
synchronous counterparts are of this type. If `bigint` in the `options` passed
to those methods is true, the numeric values will be `bigint` instead of
`number`, and the object will contain additional nanosecond-precision
properties suffixed with `Ns`. `Stat` objects are not to be created directly
using the `new` keyword.

    
    
    Stats {
      dev: 2114,
      ino: 48064969,
      mode: 33188,
      nlink: 1,
      uid: 85,
      gid: 100,
      rdev: 0,
      size: 527,
      blksize: 4096,
      blocks: 8,
      atimeMs: 1318289051000.1,
      mtimeMs: 1318289051000.1,
      ctimeMs: 1318289051000.1,
      birthtimeMs: 1318289051000.1,
      atime: Mon, 10 Oct 2011 23:24:11 GMT,
      mtime: Mon, 10 Oct 2011 23:24:11 GMT,
      ctime: Mon, 10 Oct 2011 23:24:11 GMT,
      birthtime: Mon, 10 Oct 2011 23:24:11 GMT } copy

`bigint` version:

    
    
    BigIntStats {
      dev: 2114n,
      ino: 48064969n,
      mode: 33188n,
      nlink: 1n,
      uid: 85n,
      gid: 100n,
      rdev: 0n,
      size: 527n,
      blksize: 4096n,
      blocks: 8n,
      atimeMs: 1318289051000n,
      mtimeMs: 1318289051000n,
      ctimeMs: 1318289051000n,
      birthtimeMs: 1318289051000n,
      atimeNs: 1318289051000000000n,
      mtimeNs: 1318289051000000000n,
      ctimeNs: 1318289051000000000n,
      birthtimeNs: 1318289051000000000n,
      atime: Mon, 10 Oct 2011 23:24:11 GMT,
      mtime: Mon, 10 Oct 2011 23:24:11 GMT,
      ctime: Mon, 10 Oct 2011 23:24:11 GMT,
      birthtime: Mon, 10 Oct 2011 23:24:11 GMT } copy

##### `stats.isBlockDevice()`#

Added in: v0.1.10

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the <fs.Stats> object describes a block device.

##### `stats.isCharacterDevice()`#

Added in: v0.1.10

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the <fs.Stats> object describes a character device.

##### `stats.isDirectory()`#

Added in: v0.1.10

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the <fs.Stats> object describes a file system directory.

If the <fs.Stats> object was obtained from calling `fs.lstat()` on a symbolic
link which resolves to a directory, this method will return `false`. This is
because `fs.lstat()` returns information about a symbolic link itself and not
the path it resolves to.

##### `stats.isFIFO()`#

Added in: v0.1.10

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the <fs.Stats> object describes a first-in-first-out (FIFO)
pipe.

##### `stats.isFile()`#

Added in: v0.1.10

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the <fs.Stats> object describes a regular file.

##### `stats.isSocket()`#

Added in: v0.1.10

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the <fs.Stats> object describes a socket.

##### `stats.isSymbolicLink()`#

Added in: v0.1.10

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the <fs.Stats> object describes a symbolic link.

This method is only valid when using `fs.lstat()`.

##### `stats.dev`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

The numeric identifier of the device containing the file.

##### `stats.ino`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

The file system specific "Inode" number for the file.

##### `stats.mode`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

A bit-field describing the file type and mode.

##### `stats.nlink`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

The number of hard-links that exist for the file.

##### `stats.uid`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

The numeric user identifier of the user that owns the file (POSIX).

##### `stats.gid`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

The numeric group identifier of the group that owns the file (POSIX).

##### `stats.rdev`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

A numeric device identifier if the file represents a device.

##### `stats.size`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

The size of the file in bytes.

If the underlying file system does not support getting the size of the file,
this will be `0`.

##### `stats.blksize`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

The file system block size for i/o operations.

##### `stats.blocks`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

The number of blocks allocated for this file.

##### `stats.atimeMs`#

Added in: v8.1.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

The timestamp indicating the last time this file was accessed expressed in
milliseconds since the POSIX Epoch.

##### `stats.mtimeMs`#

Added in: v8.1.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

The timestamp indicating the last time this file was modified expressed in
milliseconds since the POSIX Epoch.

##### `stats.ctimeMs`#

Added in: v8.1.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

The timestamp indicating the last time the file status was changed expressed
in milliseconds since the POSIX Epoch.

##### `stats.birthtimeMs`#

Added in: v8.1.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

The timestamp indicating the creation time of this file expressed in
milliseconds since the POSIX Epoch.

##### `stats.atimeNs`#

Added in: v12.10.0

  * [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Only present when `bigint: true` is passed into the method that generates the
object. The timestamp indicating the last time this file was accessed
expressed in nanoseconds since the POSIX Epoch.

##### `stats.mtimeNs`#

Added in: v12.10.0

  * [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Only present when `bigint: true` is passed into the method that generates the
object. The timestamp indicating the last time this file was modified
expressed in nanoseconds since the POSIX Epoch.

##### `stats.ctimeNs`#

Added in: v12.10.0

  * [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Only present when `bigint: true` is passed into the method that generates the
object. The timestamp indicating the last time the file status was changed
expressed in nanoseconds since the POSIX Epoch.

##### `stats.birthtimeNs`#

Added in: v12.10.0

  * [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Only present when `bigint: true` is passed into the method that generates the
object. The timestamp indicating the creation time of this file expressed in
nanoseconds since the POSIX Epoch.

##### `stats.atime`#

Added in: v0.11.13

  * [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)

The timestamp indicating the last time this file was accessed.

##### `stats.mtime`#

Added in: v0.11.13

  * [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)

The timestamp indicating the last time this file was modified.

##### `stats.ctime`#

Added in: v0.11.13

  * [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)

The timestamp indicating the last time the file status was changed.

##### `stats.birthtime`#

Added in: v0.11.13

  * [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date)

The timestamp indicating the creation time of this file.

##### Stat time values#

The `atimeMs`, `mtimeMs`, `ctimeMs`, `birthtimeMs` properties are numeric
values that hold the corresponding times in milliseconds. Their precision is
platform specific. When `bigint: true` is passed into the method that
generates the object, the properties will be
[bigints](https://tc39.github.io/proposal-bigint), otherwise they will be
[numbers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type).

The `atimeNs`, `mtimeNs`, `ctimeNs`, `birthtimeNs` properties are
[bigints](https://tc39.github.io/proposal-bigint) that hold the corresponding
times in nanoseconds. They are only present when `bigint: true` is passed into
the method that generates the object. Their precision is platform specific.

`atime`, `mtime`, `ctime`, and `birthtime` are
[`Date`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date) object alternate
representations of the various times. The `Date` and number values are not
connected. Assigning a new number value, or mutating the `Date` value, will
not be reflected in the corresponding alternate representation.

The times in the stat object have the following semantics:

  * `atime` "Access Time": Time when file data last accessed. Changed by the [`mknod(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/mknod.2.html), [`utimes(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/utimes.2.html), and [`read(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/read.2.html) system calls.
  * `mtime` "Modified Time": Time when file data last modified. Changed by the [`mknod(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/mknod.2.html), [`utimes(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/utimes.2.html), and [`write(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/write.2.html) system calls.
  * `ctime` "Change Time": Time when file status was last changed (inode data modification). Changed by the [`chmod(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/chmod.2.html), [`chown(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/chown.2.html), [`link(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/link.2.html), [`mknod(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/mknod.2.html), [`rename(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/rename.2.html), [`unlink(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/unlink.2.html), [`utimes(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/utimes.2.html), [`read(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/read.2.html), and [`write(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/write.2.html) system calls.
  * `birthtime` "Birth Time": Time of file creation. Set once when the file is created. On file systems where birthtime is not available, this field may instead hold either the `ctime` or `1970-01-01T00:00Z` (ie, Unix epoch timestamp `0`). This value may be greater than `atime` or `mtime` in this case. On Darwin and other FreeBSD variants, also set if the `atime` is explicitly set to an earlier value than the current `birthtime` using the [`utimes(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/utimes.2.html) system call.

Prior to Node.js 0.12, the `ctime` held the `birthtime` on Windows systems. As
of 0.12, `ctime` is not "creation time", and on Unix systems, it never was.

#### Class: `fs.StatFs`#

Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0

Provides information about a mounted file system.

Objects returned from `fs.statfs()` and its synchronous counterpart are of
this type. If `bigint` in the `options` passed to those methods is `true`, the
numeric values will be `bigint` instead of `number`.

    
    
    StatFs {
      type: 1397114950,
      bsize: 4096,
      blocks: 121938943,
      bfree: 61058895,
      bavail: 61058895,
      files: 999,
      ffree: 1000000
    } copy

`bigint` version:

    
    
    StatFs {
      type: 1397114950n,
      bsize: 4096n,
      blocks: 121938943n,
      bfree: 61058895n,
      bavail: 61058895n,
      files: 999n,
      ffree: 1000000n
    } copy

##### `statfs.bavail`#

Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Free blocks available to unprivileged users.

##### `statfs.bfree`#

Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Free blocks in file system.

##### `statfs.blocks`#

Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Total data blocks in file system.

##### `statfs.bsize`#

Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Optimal transfer block size.

##### `statfs.ffree`#

Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Free file nodes in file system.

##### `statfs.files`#

Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Total file nodes in file system.

##### `statfs.type`#

Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Type of file system.

#### Class: `fs.WriteStream`#

Added in: v0.1.93

  * Extends <stream.Writable>

Instances of <fs.WriteStream> are created and returned using the
`fs.createWriteStream()` function.

##### Event: `'close'`#

Added in: v0.1.93

Emitted when the <fs.WriteStream>'s underlying file descriptor has been
closed.

##### Event: `'open'`#

Added in: v0.1.93

  * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Integer file descriptor used by the <fs.WriteStream>.

Emitted when the <fs.WriteStream>'s file is opened.

##### Event: `'ready'`#

Added in: v9.11.0

Emitted when the <fs.WriteStream> is ready to be used.

Fires immediately after `'open'`.

##### `writeStream.bytesWritten`#

Added in: v0.4.7

The number of bytes written so far. Does not include data that is still queued
for writing.

##### `writeStream.close([callback])`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Closes `writeStream`. Optionally accepts a callback that will be executed once
the `writeStream` is closed.

##### `writeStream.path`#

Added in: v0.1.93

The path to the file the stream is writing to as specified in the first
argument to `fs.createWriteStream()`. If `path` is passed as a string, then
`writeStream.path` will be a string. If `path` is passed as a <Buffer>, then
`writeStream.path` will be a <Buffer>.

##### `writeStream.pending`#

Added in: v11.2.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

This property is `true` if the underlying file has not been opened yet, i.e.
before the `'ready'` event is emitted.

#### `fs.constants`#

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns an object containing commonly used constants for file system
operations.

##### FS constants#

The following constants are exported by `fs.constants` and
`fsPromises.constants`.

Not every constant will be available on every operating system; this is
especially important for Windows, where many of the POSIX specific definitions
are not available. For portable applications it is recommended to check for
their presence before use.

To use more than one constant, use the bitwise OR `|` operator.

Example:

    
    
    import { open, constants } from 'node:fs';
    
    const {
      O_RDWR,
      O_CREAT,
      O_EXCL,
    } = constants;
    
    open('/path/to/my/file', O_RDWR | O_CREAT | O_EXCL, (err, fd) => {
      // ...
    }); copy

###### File access constants#

The following constants are meant for use as the `mode` parameter passed to
`fsPromises.access()`, `fs.access()`, and `fs.accessSync()`.

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`F_OK` | Flag indicating that the file is visible to the calling process. This is useful for determining if a file exists, but says nothing about `rwx` permissions. Default if no mode is specified.  
`R_OK` | Flag indicating that the file can be read by the calling process.  
`W_OK` | Flag indicating that the file can be written by the calling process.  
`X_OK` | Flag indicating that the file can be executed by the calling process. This has no effect on Windows (will behave like `fs.constants.F_OK`).  
  
The definitions are also available on Windows.

###### File copy constants#

The following constants are meant for use with `fs.copyFile()`.

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`COPYFILE_EXCL` | If present, the copy operation will fail with an error if the destination path already exists.  
`COPYFILE_FICLONE` | If present, the copy operation will attempt to create a copy-on-write reflink. If the underlying platform does not support copy-on-write, then a fallback copy mechanism is used.  
`COPYFILE_FICLONE_FORCE` | If present, the copy operation will attempt to create a copy-on-write reflink. If the underlying platform does not support copy-on-write, then the operation will fail with an error.  
  
The definitions are also available on Windows.

###### File open constants#

The following constants are meant for use with `fs.open()`.

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`O_RDONLY` | Flag indicating to open a file for read-only access.  
`O_WRONLY` | Flag indicating to open a file for write-only access.  
`O_RDWR` | Flag indicating to open a file for read-write access.  
`O_CREAT` | Flag indicating to create the file if it does not already exist.  
`O_EXCL` | Flag indicating that opening a file should fail if the `O_CREAT` flag is set and the file already exists.  
`O_NOCTTY` | Flag indicating that if path identifies a terminal device, opening the path shall not cause that terminal to become the controlling terminal for the process (if the process does not already have one).  
`O_TRUNC` | Flag indicating that if the file exists and is a regular file, and the file is opened successfully for write access, its length shall be truncated to zero.  
`O_APPEND` | Flag indicating that data will be appended to the end of the file.  
`O_DIRECTORY` | Flag indicating that the open should fail if the path is not a directory.  
`O_NOATIME` | Flag indicating reading accesses to the file system will no longer result in an update to the `atime` information associated with the file. This flag is available on Linux operating systems only.  
`O_NOFOLLOW` | Flag indicating that the open should fail if the path is a symbolic link.  
`O_SYNC` | Flag indicating that the file is opened for synchronized I/O with write operations waiting for file integrity.  
`O_DSYNC` | Flag indicating that the file is opened for synchronized I/O with write operations waiting for data integrity.  
`O_SYMLINK` | Flag indicating to open the symbolic link itself rather than the resource it is pointing to.  
`O_DIRECT` | When set, an attempt will be made to minimize caching effects of file I/O.  
`O_NONBLOCK` | Flag indicating to open the file in nonblocking mode when possible.  
`UV_FS_O_FILEMAP` | When set, a memory file mapping is used to access the file. This flag is available on Windows operating systems only. On other operating systems, this flag is ignored.  
  
On Windows, only `O_APPEND`, `O_CREAT`, `O_EXCL`, `O_RDONLY`, `O_RDWR`,
`O_TRUNC`, `O_WRONLY`, and `UV_FS_O_FILEMAP` are available.

###### File type constants#

The following constants are meant for use with the <fs.Stats> object's `mode`
property for determining a file's type.

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`S_IFMT` | Bit mask used to extract the file type code.  
`S_IFREG` | File type constant for a regular file.  
`S_IFDIR` | File type constant for a directory.  
`S_IFCHR` | File type constant for a character-oriented device file.  
`S_IFBLK` | File type constant for a block-oriented device file.  
`S_IFIFO` | File type constant for a FIFO/pipe.  
`S_IFLNK` | File type constant for a symbolic link.  
`S_IFSOCK` | File type constant for a socket.  
  
On Windows, only `S_IFCHR`, `S_IFDIR`, `S_IFLNK`, `S_IFMT`, and `S_IFREG`, are
available.

###### File mode constants#

The following constants are meant for use with the <fs.Stats> object's `mode`
property for determining the access permissions for a file.

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`S_IRWXU` | File mode indicating readable, writable, and executable by owner.  
`S_IRUSR` | File mode indicating readable by owner.  
`S_IWUSR` | File mode indicating writable by owner.  
`S_IXUSR` | File mode indicating executable by owner.  
`S_IRWXG` | File mode indicating readable, writable, and executable by group.  
`S_IRGRP` | File mode indicating readable by group.  
`S_IWGRP` | File mode indicating writable by group.  
`S_IXGRP` | File mode indicating executable by group.  
`S_IRWXO` | File mode indicating readable, writable, and executable by others.  
`S_IROTH` | File mode indicating readable by others.  
`S_IWOTH` | File mode indicating writable by others.  
`S_IXOTH` | File mode indicating executable by others.  
  
On Windows, only `S_IRUSR` and `S_IWUSR` are available.

### Notes#

#### Ordering of callback and promise-based operations#

Because they are executed asynchronously by the underlying thread pool, there
is no guaranteed ordering when using either the callback or promise-based
methods.

For example, the following is prone to error because the `fs.stat()` operation
might complete before the `fs.rename()` operation:

    
    
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    fs.rename('/tmp/hello', '/tmp/world', (err) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log('renamed complete');
    });
    fs.stat('/tmp/world', (err, stats) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(`stats: ${JSON.stringify(stats)}`);
    }); copy

It is important to correctly order the operations by awaiting the results of
one before invoking the other:

    
    
    import { rename, stat } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    const oldPath = '/tmp/hello';
    const newPath = '/tmp/world';
    
    try {
      await rename(oldPath, newPath);
      const stats = await stat(newPath);
      console.log(`stats: ${JSON.stringify(stats)}`);
    } catch (error) {
      console.error('there was an error:', error.message);
    }const { rename, stat } = require('node:fs/promises');
    
    (async function(oldPath, newPath) {
      try {
        await rename(oldPath, newPath);
        const stats = await stat(newPath);
        console.log(`stats: ${JSON.stringify(stats)}`);
      } catch (error) {
        console.error('there was an error:', error.message);
      }
    })('/tmp/hello', '/tmp/world');copy

Or, when using the callback APIs, move the `fs.stat()` call into the callback
of the `fs.rename()` operation:

    
    
    import { rename, stat } from 'node:fs';
    
    rename('/tmp/hello', '/tmp/world', (err) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      stat('/tmp/world', (err, stats) => {
        if (err) throw err;
        console.log(`stats: ${JSON.stringify(stats)}`);
      });
    });const { rename, stat } = require('node:fs/promises');
    
    rename('/tmp/hello', '/tmp/world', (err) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      stat('/tmp/world', (err, stats) => {
        if (err) throw err;
        console.log(`stats: ${JSON.stringify(stats)}`);
      });
    });copy

#### File paths#

Most `fs` operations accept file paths that may be specified in the form of a
string, a <Buffer>, or a <URL> object using the `file:` protocol.

##### String paths#

String paths are interpreted as UTF-8 character sequences identifying the
absolute or relative filename. Relative paths will be resolved relative to the
current working directory as determined by calling `process.cwd()`.

Example using an absolute path on POSIX:

    
    
    import { open } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    let fd;
    try {
      fd = await open('/open/some/file.txt', 'r');
      // Do something with the file
    } finally {
      await fd?.close();
    } copy

Example using a relative path on POSIX (relative to `process.cwd()`):

    
    
    import { open } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    let fd;
    try {
      fd = await open('file.txt', 'r');
      // Do something with the file
    } finally {
      await fd?.close();
    } copy

##### File URL paths#

Added in: v7.6.0

For most `node:fs` module functions, the `path` or `filename` argument may be
passed as a <URL> object using the `file:` protocol.

    
    
    import { readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    readFileSync(new URL('file:///tmp/hello')); copy

`file:` URLs are always absolute paths.

###### Platform-specific considerations#

On Windows, `file:` <URL>s with a host name convert to UNC paths, while
`file:` <URL>s with drive letters convert to local absolute paths. `file:`
<URL>s with no host name and no drive letter will result in an error:

    
    
    import { readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    // On Windows :
    
    // - WHATWG file URLs with hostname convert to UNC path
    // file://hostname/p/a/t/h/file => \\hostname\p\a\t\h\file
    readFileSync(new URL('file://hostname/p/a/t/h/file'));
    
    // - WHATWG file URLs with drive letters convert to absolute path
    // file:///C:/tmp/hello => C:\tmp\hello
    readFileSync(new URL('file:///C:/tmp/hello'));
    
    // - WHATWG file URLs without hostname must have a drive letters
    readFileSync(new URL('file:///notdriveletter/p/a/t/h/file'));
    readFileSync(new URL('file:///c/p/a/t/h/file'));
    // TypeError [ERR_INVALID_FILE_URL_PATH]: File URL path must be absolute copy

`file:` <URL>s with drive letters must use `:` as a separator just after the
drive letter. Using another separator will result in an error.

On all other platforms, `file:` <URL>s with a host name are unsupported and
will result in an error:

    
    
    import { readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    // On other platforms:
    
    // - WHATWG file URLs with hostname are unsupported
    // file://hostname/p/a/t/h/file => throw!
    readFileSync(new URL('file://hostname/p/a/t/h/file'));
    // TypeError [ERR_INVALID_FILE_URL_PATH]: must be absolute
    
    // - WHATWG file URLs convert to absolute path
    // file:///tmp/hello => /tmp/hello
    readFileSync(new URL('file:///tmp/hello')); copy

A `file:` <URL> having encoded slash characters will result in an error on all
platforms:

    
    
    import { readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    // On Windows
    readFileSync(new URL('file:///C:/p/a/t/h/%2F'));
    readFileSync(new URL('file:///C:/p/a/t/h/%2f'));
    /* TypeError [ERR_INVALID_FILE_URL_PATH]: File URL path must not include encoded
    \ or / characters */
    
    // On POSIX
    readFileSync(new URL('file:///p/a/t/h/%2F'));
    readFileSync(new URL('file:///p/a/t/h/%2f'));
    /* TypeError [ERR_INVALID_FILE_URL_PATH]: File URL path must not include encoded
    / characters */ copy

On Windows, `file:` <URL>s having encoded backslash will result in an error:

    
    
    import { readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    // On Windows
    readFileSync(new URL('file:///C:/path/%5C'));
    readFileSync(new URL('file:///C:/path/%5c'));
    /* TypeError [ERR_INVALID_FILE_URL_PATH]: File URL path must not include encoded
    \ or / characters */ copy

##### Buffer paths#

Paths specified using a <Buffer> are useful primarily on certain POSIX
operating systems that treat file paths as opaque byte sequences. On such
systems, it is possible for a single file path to contain sub-sequences that
use multiple character encodings. As with string paths, <Buffer> paths may be
relative or absolute:

Example using an absolute path on POSIX:

    
    
    import { open } from 'node:fs/promises';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    let fd;
    try {
      fd = await open(Buffer.from('/open/some/file.txt'), 'r');
      // Do something with the file
    } finally {
      await fd?.close();
    } copy

##### Per-drive working directories on Windows#

On Windows, Node.js follows the concept of per-drive working directory. This
behavior can be observed when using a drive path without a backslash. For
example `fs.readdirSync('C:\\')` can potentially return a different result
than `fs.readdirSync('C:')`. For more information, see [this MSDN
page](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/FileIO/naming-a-
file#fully-qualified-vs-relative-paths).

#### File descriptors#

On POSIX systems, for every process, the kernel maintains a table of currently
open files and resources. Each open file is assigned a simple numeric
identifier called a _file descriptor_. At the system-level, all file system
operations use these file descriptors to identify and track each specific
file. Windows systems use a different but conceptually similar mechanism for
tracking resources. To simplify things for users, Node.js abstracts away the
differences between operating systems and assigns all open files a numeric
file descriptor.

The callback-based `fs.open()`, and synchronous `fs.openSync()` methods open a
file and allocate a new file descriptor. Once allocated, the file descriptor
may be used to read data from, write data to, or request information about the
file.

Operating systems limit the number of file descriptors that may be open at any
given time so it is critical to close the descriptor when operations are
completed. Failure to do so will result in a memory leak that will eventually
cause an application to crash.

    
    
    import { open, close, fstat } from 'node:fs';
    
    function closeFd(fd) {
      close(fd, (err) => {
        if (err) throw err;
      });
    }
    
    open('/open/some/file.txt', 'r', (err, fd) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      try {
        fstat(fd, (err, stat) => {
          if (err) {
            closeFd(fd);
            throw err;
          }
    
          // use stat
    
          closeFd(fd);
        });
      } catch (err) {
        closeFd(fd);
        throw err;
      }
    }); copy

The promise-based APIs use a <FileHandle> object in place of the numeric file
descriptor. These objects are better managed by the system to ensure that
resources are not leaked. However, it is still required that they are closed
when operations are completed:

    
    
    import { open } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    let file;
    try {
      file = await open('/open/some/file.txt', 'r');
      const stat = await file.stat();
      // use stat
    } finally {
      await file.close();
    } copy

#### Threadpool usage#

All callback and promise-based file system APIs (with the exception of
`fs.FSWatcher()`) use libuv's threadpool. This can have surprising and
negative performance implications for some applications. See the
`UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE` documentation for more information.

#### File system flags#

The following flags are available wherever the `flag` option takes a string.

  * `'a'`: Open file for appending. The file is created if it does not exist.

  * `'ax'`: Like `'a'` but fails if the path exists.

  * `'a+'`: Open file for reading and appending. The file is created if it does not exist.

  * `'ax+'`: Like `'a+'` but fails if the path exists.

  * `'as'`: Open file for appending in synchronous mode. The file is created if it does not exist.

  * `'as+'`: Open file for reading and appending in synchronous mode. The file is created if it does not exist.

  * `'r'`: Open file for reading. An exception occurs if the file does not exist.

  * `'rs'`: Open file for reading in synchronous mode. An exception occurs if the file does not exist.

  * `'r+'`: Open file for reading and writing. An exception occurs if the file does not exist.

  * `'rs+'`: Open file for reading and writing in synchronous mode. Instructs the operating system to bypass the local file system cache.

This is primarily useful for opening files on NFS mounts as it allows skipping
the potentially stale local cache. It has a very real impact on I/O
performance so using this flag is not recommended unless it is needed.

This doesn't turn `fs.open()` or `fsPromises.open()` into a synchronous
blocking call. If synchronous operation is desired, something like
`fs.openSync()` should be used.

  * `'w'`: Open file for writing. The file is created (if it does not exist) or truncated (if it exists).

  * `'wx'`: Like `'w'` but fails if the path exists.

  * `'w+'`: Open file for reading and writing. The file is created (if it does not exist) or truncated (if it exists).

  * `'wx+'`: Like `'w+'` but fails if the path exists.

`flag` can also be a number as documented by
[`open(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/open.2.html); commonly used
constants are available from `fs.constants`. On Windows, flags are translated
to their equivalent ones where applicable, e.g. `O_WRONLY` to
`FILE_GENERIC_WRITE`, or `O_EXCL|O_CREAT` to `CREATE_NEW`, as accepted by
`CreateFileW`.

The exclusive flag `'x'` (`O_EXCL` flag in
[`open(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/open.2.html)) causes the
operation to return an error if the path already exists. On POSIX, if the path
is a symbolic link, using `O_EXCL` returns an error even if the link is to a
path that does not exist. The exclusive flag might not work with network file
systems.

On Linux, positional writes don't work when the file is opened in append mode.
The kernel ignores the position argument and always appends the data to the
end of the file.

Modifying a file rather than replacing it may require the `flag` option to be
set to `'r+'` rather than the default `'w'`.

The behavior of some flags are platform-specific. As such, opening a directory
on macOS and Linux with the `'a+'` flag, as in the example below, will return
an error. In contrast, on Windows and FreeBSD, a file descriptor or a
`FileHandle` will be returned.

    
    
    // macOS and Linux
    fs.open('<directory>', 'a+', (err, fd) => {
      // => [Error: EISDIR: illegal operation on a directory, open <directory>]
    });
    
    // Windows and FreeBSD
    fs.open('<directory>', 'a+', (err, fd) => {
      // => null, <fd>
    }); copy

On Windows, opening an existing hidden file using the `'w'` flag (either
through `fs.open()`, `fs.writeFile()`, or `fsPromises.open()`) will fail with
`EPERM`. Existing hidden files can be opened for writing with the `'r+'` flag.

A call to `fs.ftruncate()` or `filehandle.truncate()` can be used to reset the
file contents.

## Global objects#

These objects are available in all modules.

The following variables may appear to be global but are not. They exist only
in the scope of [CommonJS modules](modules.html):

  * `__dirname`
  * `__filename`
  * `exports`
  * `module`
  * `require()`

The objects listed here are specific to Node.js. There are [built-in
objects](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects) that are part of the
JavaScript language itself, which are also globally accessible.

### Class: `AbortController`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.4.0 | No longer experimental.  
v15.0.0, v14.17.0 | Added in: v15.0.0, v14.17.0  
  
A utility class used to signal cancelation in selected `Promise`-based APIs.
The API is based on the Web API
[`AbortController`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/AbortController).

    
    
    const ac = new AbortController();
    
    ac.signal.addEventListener('abort', () => console.log('Aborted!'),
                               { once: true });
    
    ac.abort();
    
    console.log(ac.signal.aborted);  // Prints true copy

#### `abortController.abort([reason])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.2.0, v16.14.0 | Added the new optional reason argument.  
v15.0.0, v14.17.0 | Added in: v15.0.0, v14.17.0  
  
  * `reason` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) An optional reason, retrievable on the `AbortSignal`'s `reason` property.

Triggers the abort signal, causing the `abortController.signal` to emit the
`'abort'` event.

#### `abortController.signal`#

Added in: v15.0.0, v14.17.0

  * Type: <AbortSignal>

#### Class: `AbortSignal`#

Added in: v15.0.0, v14.17.0

  * Extends: <EventTarget>

The `AbortSignal` is used to notify observers when the
`abortController.abort()` method is called.

##### Static method: `AbortSignal.abort([reason])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.2.0, v16.14.0 | Added the new optional reason argument.  
v15.12.0, v14.17.0 | Added in: v15.12.0, v14.17.0  
  
  * `reason`: [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: <AbortSignal>

Returns a new already aborted `AbortSignal`.

##### Static method: `AbortSignal.timeout(delay)`#

Added in: v17.3.0, v16.14.0

  * `delay` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds to wait before triggering the AbortSignal.

Returns a new `AbortSignal` which will be aborted in `delay` milliseconds.

##### Static method: `AbortSignal.any(signals)`#

Added in: v20.3.0, v18.17.0

  * `signals` <AbortSignal[]> The `AbortSignal`s of which to compose a new `AbortSignal`.

Returns a new `AbortSignal` which will be aborted if any of the provided
signals are aborted. Its `abortSignal.reason` will be set to whichever one of
the `signals` caused it to be aborted.

##### Event: `'abort'`#

Added in: v15.0.0, v14.17.0

The `'abort'` event is emitted when the `abortController.abort()` method is
called. The callback is invoked with a single object argument with a single
`type` property set to `'abort'`:

    
    
    const ac = new AbortController();
    
    // Use either the onabort property...
    ac.signal.onabort = () => console.log('aborted!');
    
    // Or the EventTarget API...
    ac.signal.addEventListener('abort', (event) => {
      console.log(event.type);  // Prints 'abort'
    }, { once: true });
    
    ac.abort(); copy

The `AbortController` with which the `AbortSignal` is associated will only
ever trigger the `'abort'` event once. We recommended that code check that the
`abortSignal.aborted` attribute is `false` before adding an `'abort'` event
listener.

Any event listeners attached to the `AbortSignal` should use the `{ once: true
}` option (or, if using the `EventEmitter` APIs to attach a listener, use the
`once()` method) to ensure that the event listener is removed as soon as the
`'abort'` event is handled. Failure to do so may result in memory leaks.

##### `abortSignal.aborted`#

Added in: v15.0.0, v14.17.0

  * Type: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) True after the `AbortController` has been aborted.

##### `abortSignal.onabort`#

Added in: v15.0.0, v14.17.0

  * Type: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

An optional callback function that may be set by user code to be notified when
the `abortController.abort()` function has been called.

##### `abortSignal.reason`#

Added in: v17.2.0, v16.14.0

  * Type: [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

An optional reason specified when the `AbortSignal` was triggered.

    
    
    const ac = new AbortController();
    ac.abort(new Error('boom!'));
    console.log(ac.signal.reason);  // Error: boom! copy

##### `abortSignal.throwIfAborted()`#

Added in: v17.3.0, v16.17.0

If `abortSignal.aborted` is `true`, throws `abortSignal.reason`.

### Class: `Blob`#

Added in: v18.0.0

See <Blob>.

### Class: `Buffer`#

Added in: v0.1.103

  * [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Used to handle binary data. See the [buffer section](buffer.html).

### Class: `ByteLengthQueuingStrategy`#

Added in: v18.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental.

A browser-compatible implementation of `ByteLengthQueuingStrategy`.

### `__dirname`#

This variable may appear to be global but is not. See `__dirname`.

### `__filename`#

This variable may appear to be global but is not. See `__filename`.

### `atob(data)`#

Added in: v16.0.0

Stability: 3 \- Legacy. Use `Buffer.from(data, 'base64')` instead.

Global alias for `buffer.atob()`.

### `BroadcastChannel`#

Added in: v18.0.0

See <BroadcastChannel>.

### `btoa(data)`#

Added in: v16.0.0

Stability: 3 \- Legacy. Use `buf.toString('base64')` instead.

Global alias for `buffer.btoa()`.

### `clearImmediate(immediateObject)`#

Added in: v0.9.1

`clearImmediate` is described in the [timers](timers.html) section.

### `clearInterval(intervalObject)`#

Added in: v0.0.1

`clearInterval` is described in the [timers](timers.html) section.

### `clearTimeout(timeoutObject)`#

Added in: v0.0.1

`clearTimeout` is described in the [timers](timers.html) section.

### `CloseEvent`#

Added in: v23.0.0

The `CloseEvent` class. See [`CloseEvent`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/CloseEvent/CloseEvent) for more details.

A browser-compatible implementation of
[`CloseEvent`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/CloseEvent/CloseEvent). Disable this API with the `--no-
experimental-websocket` CLI flag.

### Class: `CompressionStream`#

Added in: v18.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental.

A browser-compatible implementation of `CompressionStream`.

### `console`#

Added in: v0.1.100

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Used to print to stdout and stderr. See the [`console`](console.html) section.

### Class: `CountQueuingStrategy`#

Added in: v18.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental.

A browser-compatible implementation of `CountQueuingStrategy`.

### `Crypto`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | No longer experimental.  
v19.0.0 | No longer behind `--experimental-global-webcrypto` CLI flag.  
v17.6.0, v16.15.0 | Added in: v17.6.0, v16.15.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable.

A browser-compatible implementation of <Crypto>. This global is available only
if the Node.js binary was compiled with including support for the
`node:crypto` module.

### `crypto`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | No longer experimental.  
v19.0.0 | No longer behind `--experimental-global-webcrypto` CLI flag.  
v17.6.0, v16.15.0 | Added in: v17.6.0, v16.15.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable.

A browser-compatible implementation of the [Web Crypto API](webcrypto.html).

### `CryptoKey`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | No longer experimental.  
v19.0.0 | No longer behind `--experimental-global-webcrypto` CLI flag.  
v17.6.0, v16.15.0 | Added in: v17.6.0, v16.15.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable.

A browser-compatible implementation of <CryptoKey>. This global is available
only if the Node.js binary was compiled with including support for the
`node:crypto` module.

### `CustomEvent`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | No longer experimental.  
v22.1.0, v20.13.0 | CustomEvent is now stable.  
v19.0.0 | No longer behind `--experimental-global-customevent` CLI flag.  
v18.7.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.7.0, v16.17.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

A browser-compatible implementation of the [`CustomEvent` Web
API](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#customevent).

### Class: `DecompressionStream`#

Added in: v18.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental.

A browser-compatible implementation of `DecompressionStream`.

### `Event`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.4.0 | No longer experimental.  
v15.0.0 | Added in: v15.0.0  
  
A browser-compatible implementation of the `Event` class. See `EventTarget`
and `Event` API for more details.

### `EventSource`#

Added in: v22.3.0, v20.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental. Enable this API with the `--experimental-
eventsource` CLI flag.

A browser-compatible implementation of the
[`EventSource`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/EventSource)
class.

### `EventTarget`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.4.0 | No longer experimental.  
v15.0.0 | Added in: v15.0.0  
  
A browser-compatible implementation of the `EventTarget` class. See
`EventTarget` and `Event` API for more details.

### `exports`#

This variable may appear to be global but is not. See `exports`.

### `fetch`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0 | No longer experimental.  
v18.0.0 | No longer behind `--experimental-fetch` CLI flag.  
v17.5.0, v16.15.0 | Added in: v17.5.0, v16.15.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

A browser-compatible implementation of the
[`fetch()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch) function.

### Class: `File`#

Added in: v20.0.0

See <File>.

### Class `FormData`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0 | No longer experimental.  
v18.0.0 | No longer behind `--experimental-fetch` CLI flag.  
v17.6.0, v16.15.0 | Added in: v17.6.0, v16.15.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

A browser-compatible implementation of
[<FormData>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FormData).

### `global`#

Added in: v0.1.27

Stability: 3 \- Legacy. Use [`globalThis`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/globalThis) instead.

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The global namespace object.

In browsers, the top-level scope has traditionally been the global scope. This
means that `var something` will define a new global variable, except within
ECMAScript modules. In Node.js, this is different. The top-level scope is not
the global scope; `var something` inside a Node.js module will be local to
that module, regardless of whether it is a [CommonJS module](modules.html) or
an [ECMAScript module](esm.html).

### Class `Headers`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0 | No longer experimental.  
v18.0.0 | No longer behind `--experimental-fetch` CLI flag.  
v17.5.0, v16.15.0 | Added in: v17.5.0, v16.15.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

A browser-compatible implementation of
[<Headers>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Headers).

### `localStorage`#

Added in: v22.4.0

Stability: 1.0 - Early development.

A browser-compatible implementation of
[`localStorage`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage). Data is stored unencrypted in the file
specified by the `--localstorage-file` CLI flag. The maximum amount of data
that can be stored is 10 MB. Any modification of this data outside of the Web
Storage API is not supported. Enable this API with the `--experimental-
webstorage` CLI flag. `localStorage` data is not stored per user or per
request when used in the context of a server, it is shared across all users
and requests.

### `MessageChannel`#

Added in: v15.0.0

The `MessageChannel` class. See `MessageChannel` for more details.

### `MessageEvent`#

Added in: v15.0.0

The `MessageEvent` class. See
[`MessageEvent`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/MessageEvent/MessageEvent) for more details.

### `MessagePort`#

Added in: v15.0.0

The `MessagePort` class. See `MessagePort` for more details.

### `module`#

This variable may appear to be global but is not. See `module`.

### `Navigator`#

Added in: v21.0.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development. Disable this API with the `--no-
experimental-global-navigator` CLI flag.

A partial implementation of the [Navigator
API](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/system-state.html#the-navigator-
object).

### `navigator`#

Added in: v21.0.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development. Disable this API with the `--no-
experimental-global-navigator` CLI flag.

A partial implementation of
[`window.navigator`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/Window/navigator).

#### `navigator.hardwareConcurrency`#

Added in: v21.0.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `navigator.hardwareConcurrency` read-only property returns the number of
logical processors available to the current Node.js instance.

    
    
    console.log(`This process is running on ${navigator.hardwareConcurrency} logical processors`); copy

#### `navigator.language`#

Added in: v21.2.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `navigator.language` read-only property returns a string representing the
preferred language of the Node.js instance. The language will be determined by
the ICU library used by Node.js at runtime based on the default language of
the operating system.

The value is representing the language version as defined in [RFC
5646](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5646.txt).

The fallback value on builds without ICU is `'en-US'`.

    
    
    console.log(`The preferred language of the Node.js instance has the tag '${navigator.language}'`); copy

#### `navigator.languages`#

Added in: v21.2.0

  * {Array}

The `navigator.languages` read-only property returns an array of strings
representing the preferred languages of the Node.js instance. By default
`navigator.languages` contains only the value of `navigator.language`, which
will be determined by the ICU library used by Node.js at runtime based on the
default language of the operating system.

The fallback value on builds without ICU is `['en-US']`.

    
    
    console.log(`The preferred languages are '${navigator.languages}'`); copy

#### `navigator.platform`#

Added in: v21.2.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `navigator.platform` read-only property returns a string identifying the
platform on which the Node.js instance is running.

    
    
    console.log(`This process is running on ${navigator.platform}`); copy

#### `navigator.userAgent`#

Added in: v21.1.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `navigator.userAgent` read-only property returns user agent consisting of
the runtime name and major version number.

    
    
    console.log(`The user-agent is ${navigator.userAgent}`); // Prints "Node.js/21" copy

### `PerformanceEntry`#

Added in: v19.0.0

The `PerformanceEntry` class. See `PerformanceEntry` for more details.

### `PerformanceMark`#

Added in: v19.0.0

The `PerformanceMark` class. See `PerformanceMark` for more details.

### `PerformanceMeasure`#

Added in: v19.0.0

The `PerformanceMeasure` class. See `PerformanceMeasure` for more details.

### `PerformanceObserver`#

Added in: v19.0.0

The `PerformanceObserver` class. See `PerformanceObserver` for more details.

### `PerformanceObserverEntryList`#

Added in: v19.0.0

The `PerformanceObserverEntryList` class. See `PerformanceObserverEntryList`
for more details.

### `PerformanceResourceTiming`#

Added in: v19.0.0

The `PerformanceResourceTiming` class. See `PerformanceResourceTiming` for
more details.

### `performance`#

Added in: v16.0.0

The `perf_hooks.performance` object.

### `process`#

Added in: v0.1.7

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The process object. See the `process` object section.

### `queueMicrotask(callback)`#

Added in: v11.0.0

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Function to be queued.

The `queueMicrotask()` method queues a microtask to invoke `callback`. If
`callback` throws an exception, the `process` object `'uncaughtException'`
event will be emitted.

The microtask queue is managed by V8 and may be used in a similar manner to
the `process.nextTick()` queue, which is managed by Node.js. The
`process.nextTick()` queue is always processed before the microtask queue
within each turn of the Node.js event loop.

    
    
    // Here, `queueMicrotask()` is used to ensure the 'load' event is always
    // emitted asynchronously, and therefore consistently. Using
    // `process.nextTick()` here would result in the 'load' event always emitting
    // before any other promise jobs.
    
    DataHandler.prototype.load = async function load(key) {
      const hit = this._cache.get(key);
      if (hit !== undefined) {
        queueMicrotask(() => {
          this.emit('load', hit);
        });
        return;
      }
    
      const data = await fetchData(key);
      this._cache.set(key, data);
      this.emit('load', data);
    }; copy

### Class: `ReadableByteStreamController`#

Added in: v18.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental.

A browser-compatible implementation of `ReadableByteStreamController`.

### Class: `ReadableStream`#

Added in: v18.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental.

A browser-compatible implementation of `ReadableStream`.

### Class: `ReadableStreamBYOBReader`#

Added in: v18.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental.

A browser-compatible implementation of `ReadableStreamBYOBReader`.

### Class: `ReadableStreamBYOBRequest`#

Added in: v18.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental.

A browser-compatible implementation of `ReadableStreamBYOBRequest`.

### Class: `ReadableStreamDefaultController`#

Added in: v18.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental.

A browser-compatible implementation of `ReadableStreamDefaultController`.

### Class: `ReadableStreamDefaultReader`#

Added in: v18.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental.

A browser-compatible implementation of `ReadableStreamDefaultReader`.

### `require()`#

This variable may appear to be global but is not. See `require()`.

### `Response`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0 | No longer experimental.  
v18.0.0 | No longer behind `--experimental-fetch` CLI flag.  
v17.5.0, v16.15.0 | Added in: v17.5.0, v16.15.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

A browser-compatible implementation of
[<Response>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response).

### `Request`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0 | No longer experimental.  
v18.0.0 | No longer behind `--experimental-fetch` CLI flag.  
v17.5.0, v16.15.0 | Added in: v17.5.0, v16.15.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

A browser-compatible implementation of
[<Request>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request).

### `sessionStorage`#

Added in: v22.4.0

Stability: 1.0 - Early development.

A browser-compatible implementation of
[`sessionStorage`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/Window/sessionStorage). Data is stored in memory, with a
storage quota of 10 MB. `sessionStorage` data persists only within the
currently running process, and is not shared between workers.

### `setImmediate(callback[, ...args])`#

Added in: v0.9.1

`setImmediate` is described in the [timers](timers.html) section.

### `setInterval(callback, delay[, ...args])`#

Added in: v0.0.1

`setInterval` is described in the [timers](timers.html) section.

### `setTimeout(callback, delay[, ...args])`#

Added in: v0.0.1

`setTimeout` is described in the [timers](timers.html) section.

### Class: `Storage`#

Added in: v22.4.0

Stability: 1.0 - Early development.

A browser-compatible implementation of
[`Storage`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Storage). Enable
this API with the `--experimental-webstorage` CLI flag.

### `structuredClone(value[, options])`#

Added in: v17.0.0

The WHATWG [`structuredClone`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/structuredClone) method.

### `SubtleCrypto`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | No longer behind `--experimental-global-webcrypto` CLI flag.  
v17.6.0, v16.15.0 | Added in: v17.6.0, v16.15.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable.

A browser-compatible implementation of <SubtleCrypto>. This global is
available only if the Node.js binary was compiled with including support for
the `node:crypto` module.

### `DOMException`#

Added in: v17.0.0

The WHATWG `DOMException` class. See
[`DOMException`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/DOMException) for more details.

### `TextDecoder`#

Added in: v11.0.0

The WHATWG `TextDecoder` class. See the `TextDecoder` section.

### Class: `TextDecoderStream`#

Added in: v18.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental.

A browser-compatible implementation of `TextDecoderStream`.

### `TextEncoder`#

Added in: v11.0.0

The WHATWG `TextEncoder` class. See the `TextEncoder` section.

### Class: `TextEncoderStream`#

Added in: v18.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental.

A browser-compatible implementation of `TextEncoderStream`.

### Class: `TransformStream`#

Added in: v18.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental.

A browser-compatible implementation of `TransformStream`.

### Class: `TransformStreamDefaultController`#

Added in: v18.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental.

A browser-compatible implementation of `TransformStreamDefaultController`.

### `URL`#

Added in: v10.0.0

The WHATWG `URL` class. See the `URL` section.

### `URLSearchParams`#

Added in: v10.0.0

The WHATWG `URLSearchParams` class. See the `URLSearchParams` section.

### `WebAssembly`#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The object that acts as the namespace for all W3C
[WebAssembly](https://webassembly.org) related functionality. See the [Mozilla
Developer Network](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/WebAssembly) for
usage and compatibility.

### `WebSocket`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.4.0 | No longer experimental.  
v22.0.0 | No longer behind `--experimental-websocket` CLI flag.  
v21.0.0, v20.10.0 | Added in: v21.0.0, v20.10.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable.

A browser-compatible implementation of
[`WebSocket`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSocket).
Disable this API with the `--no-experimental-websocket` CLI flag.

### Class: `WritableStream`#

Added in: v18.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental.

A browser-compatible implementation of `WritableStream`.

### Class: `WritableStreamDefaultController`#

Added in: v18.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental.

A browser-compatible implementation of `WritableStreamDefaultController`.

### Class: `WritableStreamDefaultWriter`#

Added in: v18.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental.

A browser-compatible implementation of `WritableStreamDefaultWriter`.

## HTTP#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/http.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/http.js)

This module, containing both a client and server, can be imported via
`require('node:http')` (CommonJS) or `import * as http from 'node:http'` (ES
module).

The HTTP interfaces in Node.js are designed to support many features of the
protocol which have been traditionally difficult to use. In particular, large,
possibly chunk-encoded, messages. The interface is careful to never buffer
entire requests or responses, so the user is able to stream data.

HTTP message headers are represented by an object like this:

    
    
    { "content-length": "123",
      "content-type": "text/plain",
      "connection": "keep-alive",
      "host": "example.com",
      "accept": "*/*" } copy

Keys are lowercased. Values are not modified.

In order to support the full spectrum of possible HTTP applications, the
Node.js HTTP API is very low-level. It deals with stream handling and message
parsing only. It parses a message into headers and body but it does not parse
the actual headers or the body.

See `message.headers` for details on how duplicate headers are handled.

The raw headers as they were received are retained in the `rawHeaders`
property, which is an array of `[key, value, key2, value2, ...]`. For example,
the previous message header object might have a `rawHeaders` list like the
following:

    
    
    [ 'ConTent-Length', '123456',
      'content-LENGTH', '123',
      'content-type', 'text/plain',
      'CONNECTION', 'keep-alive',
      'Host', 'example.com',
      'accepT', '*/*' ] copy

### Class: `http.Agent`#

Added in: v0.3.4

An `Agent` is responsible for managing connection persistence and reuse for
HTTP clients. It maintains a queue of pending requests for a given host and
port, reusing a single socket connection for each until the queue is empty, at
which time the socket is either destroyed or put into a pool where it is kept
to be used again for requests to the same host and port. Whether it is
destroyed or pooled depends on the `keepAlive` option.

Pooled connections have TCP Keep-Alive enabled for them, but servers may still
close idle connections, in which case they will be removed from the pool and a
new connection will be made when a new HTTP request is made for that host and
port. Servers may also refuse to allow multiple requests over the same
connection, in which case the connection will have to be remade for every
request and cannot be pooled. The `Agent` will still make the requests to that
server, but each one will occur over a new connection.

When a connection is closed by the client or the server, it is removed from
the pool. Any unused sockets in the pool will be unrefed so as not to keep the
Node.js process running when there are no outstanding requests. (see
`socket.unref()`).

It is good practice, to `destroy()` an `Agent` instance when it is no longer
in use, because unused sockets consume OS resources.

Sockets are removed from an agent when the socket emits either a `'close'`
event or an `'agentRemove'` event. When intending to keep one HTTP request
open for a long time without keeping it in the agent, something like the
following may be done:

    
    
    http.get(options, (res) => {
      // Do stuff
    }).on('socket', (socket) => {
      socket.emit('agentRemove');
    }); copy

An agent may also be used for an individual request. By providing `{agent:
false}` as an option to the `http.get()` or `http.request()` functions, a one-
time use `Agent` with default options will be used for the client connection.

`agent:false`:

    
    
    http.get({
      hostname: 'localhost',
      port: 80,
      path: '/',
      agent: false,  // Create a new agent just for this one request
    }, (res) => {
      // Do stuff with response
    }); copy

#### `new Agent([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.6.0, v14.17.0 | Change the default scheduling from 'fifo' to 'lifo'.  
v14.5.0, v12.20.0 | Add `scheduling` option to specify the free socket scheduling strategy.  
v14.5.0, v12.19.0 | Add `maxTotalSockets` option to agent constructor.  
v0.3.4 | Added in: v0.3.4  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Set of configurable options to set on the agent. Can have the following fields: 
    * `keepAlive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Keep sockets around even when there are no outstanding requests, so they can be used for future requests without having to reestablish a TCP connection. Not to be confused with the `keep-alive` value of the `Connection` header. The `Connection: keep-alive` header is always sent when using an agent except when the `Connection` header is explicitly specified or when the `keepAlive` and `maxSockets` options are respectively set to `false` and `Infinity`, in which case `Connection: close` will be used. **Default:** `false`.
    * `keepAliveMsecs` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) When using the `keepAlive` option, specifies the initial delay for TCP Keep-Alive packets. Ignored when the `keepAlive` option is `false` or `undefined`. **Default:** `1000`.
    * `maxSockets` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Maximum number of sockets to allow per host. If the same host opens multiple concurrent connections, each request will use new socket until the `maxSockets` value is reached. If the host attempts to open more connections than `maxSockets`, the additional requests will enter into a pending request queue, and will enter active connection state when an existing connection terminates. This makes sure there are at most `maxSockets` active connections at any point in time, from a given host. **Default:** `Infinity`.
    * `maxTotalSockets` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Maximum number of sockets allowed for all hosts in total. Each request will use a new socket until the maximum is reached. **Default:** `Infinity`.
    * `maxFreeSockets` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Maximum number of sockets per host to leave open in a free state. Only relevant if `keepAlive` is set to `true`. **Default:** `256`.
    * `scheduling` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Scheduling strategy to apply when picking the next free socket to use. It can be `'fifo'` or `'lifo'`. The main difference between the two scheduling strategies is that `'lifo'` selects the most recently used socket, while `'fifo'` selects the least recently used socket. In case of a low rate of request per second, the `'lifo'` scheduling will lower the risk of picking a socket that might have been closed by the server due to inactivity. In case of a high rate of request per second, the `'fifo'` scheduling will maximize the number of open sockets, while the `'lifo'` scheduling will keep it as low as possible. **Default:** `'lifo'`.
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Socket timeout in milliseconds. This will set the timeout when the socket is created.

`options` in `socket.connect()` are also supported.

To configure any of them, a custom `http.Agent` instance must be created.

    
    
    import { Agent, request } from 'node:http';
    const keepAliveAgent = new Agent({ keepAlive: true });
    options.agent = keepAliveAgent;
    request(options, onResponseCallback);const http = require('node:http');
    const keepAliveAgent = new http.Agent({ keepAlive: true });
    options.agent = keepAliveAgent;
    http.request(options, onResponseCallback);copy

#### `agent.createConnection(options[, callback])`#

Added in: v0.11.4

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Options containing connection details. Check `net.createConnection()` for the format of the options
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Callback function that receives the created socket
  * Returns: <stream.Duplex>

Produces a socket/stream to be used for HTTP requests.

By default, this function is the same as `net.createConnection()`. However,
custom agents may override this method in case greater flexibility is desired.

A socket/stream can be supplied in one of two ways: by returning the
socket/stream from this function, or by passing the socket/stream to
`callback`.

This method is guaranteed to return an instance of the <net.Socket> class, a
subclass of <stream.Duplex>, unless the user specifies a socket type other
than <net.Socket>.

`callback` has a signature of `(err, stream)`.

#### `agent.keepSocketAlive(socket)`#

Added in: v8.1.0

  * `socket` <stream.Duplex>

Called when `socket` is detached from a request and could be persisted by the
`Agent`. Default behavior is to:

    
    
    socket.setKeepAlive(true, this.keepAliveMsecs);
    socket.unref();
    return true; copy

This method can be overridden by a particular `Agent` subclass. If this method
returns a falsy value, the socket will be destroyed instead of persisting it
for use with the next request.

The `socket` argument can be an instance of <net.Socket>, a subclass of
<stream.Duplex>.

#### `agent.reuseSocket(socket, request)`#

Added in: v8.1.0

  * `socket` <stream.Duplex>
  * `request` <http.ClientRequest>

Called when `socket` is attached to `request` after being persisted because of
the keep-alive options. Default behavior is to:

    
    
    socket.ref(); copy

This method can be overridden by a particular `Agent` subclass.

The `socket` argument can be an instance of <net.Socket>, a subclass of
<stream.Duplex>.

#### `agent.destroy()`#

Added in: v0.11.4

Destroy any sockets that are currently in use by the agent.

It is usually not necessary to do this. However, if using an agent with
`keepAlive` enabled, then it is best to explicitly shut down the agent when it
is no longer needed. Otherwise, sockets might stay open for quite a long time
before the server terminates them.

#### `agent.freeSockets`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | The property now has a `null` prototype.  
v0.11.4 | Added in: v0.11.4  
  
  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

An object which contains arrays of sockets currently awaiting use by the agent
when `keepAlive` is enabled. Do not modify.

Sockets in the `freeSockets` list will be automatically destroyed and removed
from the array on `'timeout'`.

#### `agent.getName([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.7.0, v16.15.0 | The `options` parameter is now optional.  
v0.11.4 | Added in: v0.11.4  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) A set of options providing information for name generation 
    * `host` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A domain name or IP address of the server to issue the request to
    * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Port of remote server
    * `localAddress` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Local interface to bind for network connections when issuing the request
    * `family` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Must be 4 or 6 if this doesn't equal `undefined`.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Get a unique name for a set of request options, to determine whether a
connection can be reused. For an HTTP agent, this returns
`host:port:localAddress` or `host:port:localAddress:family`. For an HTTPS
agent, the name includes the CA, cert, ciphers, and other HTTPS/TLS-specific
options that determine socket reusability.

#### `agent.maxFreeSockets`#

Added in: v0.11.7

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

By default set to 256. For agents with `keepAlive` enabled, this sets the
maximum number of sockets that will be left open in the free state.

#### `agent.maxSockets`#

Added in: v0.3.6

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

By default set to `Infinity`. Determines how many concurrent sockets the agent
can have open per origin. Origin is the returned value of `agent.getName()`.

#### `agent.maxTotalSockets`#

Added in: v14.5.0, v12.19.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

By default set to `Infinity`. Determines how many concurrent sockets the agent
can have open. Unlike `maxSockets`, this parameter applies across all origins.

#### `agent.requests`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | The property now has a `null` prototype.  
v0.5.9 | Added in: v0.5.9  
  
  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

An object which contains queues of requests that have not yet been assigned to
sockets. Do not modify.

#### `agent.sockets`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | The property now has a `null` prototype.  
v0.3.6 | Added in: v0.3.6  
  
  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

An object which contains arrays of sockets currently in use by the agent. Do
not modify.

### Class: `http.ClientRequest`#

Added in: v0.1.17

  * Extends: <http.OutgoingMessage>

This object is created internally and returned from `http.request()`. It
represents an _in-progress_ request whose header has already been queued. The
header is still mutable using the `setHeader(name, value)`, `getHeader(name)`,
`removeHeader(name)` API. The actual header will be sent along with the first
data chunk or when calling `request.end()`.

To get the response, add a listener for `'response'` to the request object.
`'response'` will be emitted from the request object when the response headers
have been received. The `'response'` event is executed with one argument which
is an instance of `http.IncomingMessage`.

During the `'response'` event, one can add listeners to the response object;
particularly to listen for the `'data'` event.

If no `'response'` handler is added, then the response will be entirely
discarded. However, if a `'response'` event handler is added, then the data
from the response object **must** be consumed, either by calling
`response.read()` whenever there is a `'readable'` event, or by adding a
`'data'` handler, or by calling the `.resume()` method. Until the data is
consumed, the `'end'` event will not fire. Also, until the data is read it
will consume memory that can eventually lead to a 'process out of memory'
error.

For backward compatibility, `res` will only emit `'error'` if there is an
`'error'` listener registered.

Set `Content-Length` header to limit the response body size. If
`response.strictContentLength` is set to `true`, mismatching the `Content-
Length` header value will result in an `Error` being thrown, identified by
`code:` `'ERR_HTTP_CONTENT_LENGTH_MISMATCH'`.

`Content-Length` value should be in bytes, not characters. Use
`Buffer.byteLength()` to determine the length of the body in bytes.

#### Event: `'abort'`#

Added in: v1.4.1Deprecated since: v17.0.0, v16.12.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. Listen for the `'close'` event instead.

Emitted when the request has been aborted by the client. This event is only
emitted on the first call to `abort()`.

#### Event: `'close'`#

Added in: v0.5.4

Indicates that the request is completed, or its underlying connection was
terminated prematurely (before the response completion).

#### Event: `'connect'`#

Added in: v0.7.0

  * `response` <http.IncomingMessage>
  * `socket` <stream.Duplex>
  * `head` <Buffer>

Emitted each time a server responds to a request with a `CONNECT` method. If
this event is not being listened for, clients receiving a `CONNECT` method
will have their connections closed.

This event is guaranteed to be passed an instance of the <net.Socket> class, a
subclass of <stream.Duplex>, unless the user specifies a socket type other
than <net.Socket>.

A client and server pair demonstrating how to listen for the `'connect'`
event:

    
    
    import { createServer, request } from 'node:http';
    import { connect } from 'node:net';
    import { URL } from 'node:url';
    
    // Create an HTTP tunneling proxy
    const proxy = createServer((req, res) => {
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'text/plain' });
      res.end('okay');
    });
    proxy.on('connect', (req, clientSocket, head) => {
      // Connect to an origin server
      const { port, hostname } = new URL(`http://${req.url}`);
      const serverSocket = connect(port || 80, hostname, () => {
        clientSocket.write('HTTP/1.1 200 Connection Established\r\n' +
                        'Proxy-agent: Node.js-Proxy\r\n' +
                        '\r\n');
        serverSocket.write(head);
        serverSocket.pipe(clientSocket);
        clientSocket.pipe(serverSocket);
      });
    });
    
    // Now that proxy is running
    proxy.listen(1337, '127.0.0.1', () => {
    
      // Make a request to a tunneling proxy
      const options = {
        port: 1337,
        host: '127.0.0.1',
        method: 'CONNECT',
        path: 'www.google.com:80',
      };
    
      const req = request(options);
      req.end();
    
      req.on('connect', (res, socket, head) => {
        console.log('got connected!');
    
        // Make a request over an HTTP tunnel
        socket.write('GET / HTTP/1.1\r\n' +
                     'Host: www.google.com:80\r\n' +
                     'Connection: close\r\n' +
                     '\r\n');
        socket.on('data', (chunk) => {
          console.log(chunk.toString());
        });
        socket.on('end', () => {
          proxy.close();
        });
      });
    });const http = require('node:http');
    const net = require('node:net');
    const { URL } = require('node:url');
    
    // Create an HTTP tunneling proxy
    const proxy = http.createServer((req, res) => {
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'text/plain' });
      res.end('okay');
    });
    proxy.on('connect', (req, clientSocket, head) => {
      // Connect to an origin server
      const { port, hostname } = new URL(`http://${req.url}`);
      const serverSocket = net.connect(port || 80, hostname, () => {
        clientSocket.write('HTTP/1.1 200 Connection Established\r\n' +
                        'Proxy-agent: Node.js-Proxy\r\n' +
                        '\r\n');
        serverSocket.write(head);
        serverSocket.pipe(clientSocket);
        clientSocket.pipe(serverSocket);
      });
    });
    
    // Now that proxy is running
    proxy.listen(1337, '127.0.0.1', () => {
    
      // Make a request to a tunneling proxy
      const options = {
        port: 1337,
        host: '127.0.0.1',
        method: 'CONNECT',
        path: 'www.google.com:80',
      };
    
      const req = http.request(options);
      req.end();
    
      req.on('connect', (res, socket, head) => {
        console.log('got connected!');
    
        // Make a request over an HTTP tunnel
        socket.write('GET / HTTP/1.1\r\n' +
                     'Host: www.google.com:80\r\n' +
                     'Connection: close\r\n' +
                     '\r\n');
        socket.on('data', (chunk) => {
          console.log(chunk.toString());
        });
        socket.on('end', () => {
          proxy.close();
        });
      });
    });copy

#### Event: `'continue'`#

Added in: v0.3.2

Emitted when the server sends a '100 Continue' HTTP response, usually because
the request contained 'Expect: 100-continue'. This is an instruction that the
client should send the request body.

#### Event: `'finish'`#

Added in: v0.3.6

Emitted when the request has been sent. More specifically, this event is
emitted when the last segment of the response headers and body have been
handed off to the operating system for transmission over the network. It does
not imply that the server has received anything yet.

#### Event: `'information'`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `info` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `httpVersion` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `httpVersionMajor` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `httpVersionMinor` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `statusCode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `statusMessage` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `headers` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `rawHeaders` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Emitted when the server sends a 1xx intermediate response (excluding 101
Upgrade). The listeners of this event will receive an object containing the
HTTP version, status code, status message, key-value headers object, and array
with the raw header names followed by their respective values.

    
    
    import { request } from 'node:http';
    
    const options = {
      host: '127.0.0.1',
      port: 8080,
      path: '/length_request',
    };
    
    // Make a request
    const req = request(options);
    req.end();
    
    req.on('information', (info) => {
      console.log(`Got information prior to main response: ${info.statusCode}`);
    });const http = require('node:http');
    
    const options = {
      host: '127.0.0.1',
      port: 8080,
      path: '/length_request',
    };
    
    // Make a request
    const req = http.request(options);
    req.end();
    
    req.on('information', (info) => {
      console.log(`Got information prior to main response: ${info.statusCode}`);
    });copy

101 Upgrade statuses do not fire this event due to their break from the
traditional HTTP request/response chain, such as web sockets, in-place TLS
upgrades, or HTTP 2.0. To be notified of 101 Upgrade notices, listen for the
`'upgrade'` event instead.

#### Event: `'response'`#

Added in: v0.1.0

  * `response` <http.IncomingMessage>

Emitted when a response is received to this request. This event is emitted
only once.

#### Event: `'socket'`#

Added in: v0.5.3

  * `socket` <stream.Duplex>

This event is guaranteed to be passed an instance of the <net.Socket> class, a
subclass of <stream.Duplex>, unless the user specifies a socket type other
than <net.Socket>.

#### Event: `'timeout'`#

Added in: v0.7.8

Emitted when the underlying socket times out from inactivity. This only
notifies that the socket has been idle. The request must be destroyed
manually.

See also: `request.setTimeout()`.

#### Event: `'upgrade'`#

Added in: v0.1.94

  * `response` <http.IncomingMessage>
  * `socket` <stream.Duplex>
  * `head` <Buffer>

Emitted each time a server responds to a request with an upgrade. If this
event is not being listened for and the response status code is 101 Switching
Protocols, clients receiving an upgrade header will have their connections
closed.

This event is guaranteed to be passed an instance of the <net.Socket> class, a
subclass of <stream.Duplex>, unless the user specifies a socket type other
than <net.Socket>.

A client server pair demonstrating how to listen for the `'upgrade'` event.

    
    
    import http from 'node:http';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    // Create an HTTP server
    const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'text/plain' });
      res.end('okay');
    });
    server.on('upgrade', (req, socket, head) => {
      socket.write('HTTP/1.1 101 Web Socket Protocol Handshake\r\n' +
                   'Upgrade: WebSocket\r\n' +
                   'Connection: Upgrade\r\n' +
                   '\r\n');
    
      socket.pipe(socket); // echo back
    });
    
    // Now that server is running
    server.listen(1337, '127.0.0.1', () => {
    
      // make a request
      const options = {
        port: 1337,
        host: '127.0.0.1',
        headers: {
          'Connection': 'Upgrade',
          'Upgrade': 'websocket',
        },
      };
    
      const req = http.request(options);
      req.end();
    
      req.on('upgrade', (res, socket, upgradeHead) => {
        console.log('got upgraded!');
        socket.end();
        process.exit(0);
      });
    });const http = require('node:http');
    
    // Create an HTTP server
    const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'text/plain' });
      res.end('okay');
    });
    server.on('upgrade', (req, socket, head) => {
      socket.write('HTTP/1.1 101 Web Socket Protocol Handshake\r\n' +
                   'Upgrade: WebSocket\r\n' +
                   'Connection: Upgrade\r\n' +
                   '\r\n');
    
      socket.pipe(socket); // echo back
    });
    
    // Now that server is running
    server.listen(1337, '127.0.0.1', () => {
    
      // make a request
      const options = {
        port: 1337,
        host: '127.0.0.1',
        headers: {
          'Connection': 'Upgrade',
          'Upgrade': 'websocket',
        },
      };
    
      const req = http.request(options);
      req.end();
    
      req.on('upgrade', (res, socket, upgradeHead) => {
        console.log('got upgraded!');
        socket.end();
        process.exit(0);
      });
    });copy

#### `request.abort()`#

Added in: v0.3.8Deprecated since: v14.1.0, v13.14.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `request.destroy()` instead.

Marks the request as aborting. Calling this will cause remaining data in the
response to be dropped and the socket to be destroyed.

#### `request.aborted`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.0.0, v16.12.0 | Deprecated since: v17.0.0, v16.12.0  
v11.0.0 | The `aborted` property is no longer a timestamp number.  
v0.11.14 | Added in: v0.11.14  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. Check `request.destroyed` instead.

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `request.aborted` property will be `true` if the request has been aborted.

#### `request.connection`#

Added in: v0.3.0Deprecated since: v13.0.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. Use `request.socket`.

  * <stream.Duplex>

See `request.socket`.

#### `request.cork()`#

Added in: v13.2.0, v12.16.0

See `writable.cork()`.

#### `request.end([data[, encoding]][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The `data` parameter can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v10.0.0 | This method now returns a reference to `ClientRequest`.  
v0.1.90 | Added in: v0.1.90  
  
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

Finishes sending the request. If any parts of the body are unsent, it will
flush them to the stream. If the request is chunked, this will send the
terminating `'0\r\n\r\n'`.

If `data` is specified, it is equivalent to calling `request.write(data,
encoding)` followed by `request.end(callback)`.

If `callback` is specified, it will be called when the request stream is
finished.

#### `request.destroy([error])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.5.0 | The function returns `this` for consistency with other Readable streams.  
v0.3.0 | Added in: v0.3.0  
  
  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) Optional, an error to emit with `'error'` event.
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

Destroy the request. Optionally emit an `'error'` event, and emit a `'close'`
event. Calling this will cause remaining data in the response to be dropped
and the socket to be destroyed.

See `writable.destroy()` for further details.

##### `request.destroyed`#

Added in: v14.1.0, v13.14.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` after `request.destroy()` has been called.

See `writable.destroyed` for further details.

#### `request.finished`#

Added in: v0.0.1Deprecated since: v13.4.0, v12.16.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. Use `request.writableEnded`.

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `request.finished` property will be `true` if `request.end()` has been
called. `request.end()` will automatically be called if the request was
initiated via `http.get()`.

#### `request.flushHeaders()`#

Added in: v1.6.0

Flushes the request headers.

For efficiency reasons, Node.js normally buffers the request headers until
`request.end()` is called or the first chunk of request data is written. It
then tries to pack the request headers and data into a single TCP packet.

That's usually desired (it saves a TCP round-trip), but not when the first
data is not sent until possibly much later. `request.flushHeaders()` bypasses
the optimization and kickstarts the request.

#### `request.getHeader(name)`#

Added in: v1.6.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Reads out a header on the request. The name is case-insensitive. The type of
the return value depends on the arguments provided to `request.setHeader()`.

    
    
    request.setHeader('content-type', 'text/html');
    request.setHeader('Content-Length', Buffer.byteLength(body));
    request.setHeader('Cookie', ['type=ninja', 'language=javascript']);
    const contentType = request.getHeader('Content-Type');
    // 'contentType' is 'text/html'
    const contentLength = request.getHeader('Content-Length');
    // 'contentLength' is of type number
    const cookie = request.getHeader('Cookie');
    // 'cookie' is of type string[] copy

#### `request.getHeaderNames()`#

Added in: v7.7.0

  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns an array containing the unique names of the current outgoing headers.
All header names are lowercase.

    
    
    request.setHeader('Foo', 'bar');
    request.setHeader('Cookie', ['foo=bar', 'bar=baz']);
    
    const headerNames = request.getHeaderNames();
    // headerNames === ['foo', 'cookie'] copy

#### `request.getHeaders()`#

Added in: v7.7.0

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns a shallow copy of the current outgoing headers. Since a shallow copy
is used, array values may be mutated without additional calls to various
header-related http module methods. The keys of the returned object are the
header names and the values are the respective header values. All header names
are lowercase.

The object returned by the `request.getHeaders()` method _does not_
prototypically inherit from the JavaScript `Object`. This means that typical
`Object` methods such as `obj.toString()`, `obj.hasOwnProperty()`, and others
are not defined and _will not work_.

    
    
    request.setHeader('Foo', 'bar');
    request.setHeader('Cookie', ['foo=bar', 'bar=baz']);
    
    const headers = request.getHeaders();
    // headers === { foo: 'bar', 'cookie': ['foo=bar', 'bar=baz'] } copy

#### `request.getRawHeaderNames()`#

Added in: v15.13.0, v14.17.0

  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns an array containing the unique names of the current outgoing raw
headers. Header names are returned with their exact casing being set.

    
    
    request.setHeader('Foo', 'bar');
    request.setHeader('Set-Cookie', ['foo=bar', 'bar=baz']);
    
    const headerNames = request.getRawHeaderNames();
    // headerNames === ['Foo', 'Set-Cookie'] copy

#### `request.hasHeader(name)`#

Added in: v7.7.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the header identified by `name` is currently set in the
outgoing headers. The header name matching is case-insensitive.

    
    
    const hasContentType = request.hasHeader('content-type'); copy

#### `request.maxHeadersCount`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `2000`

Limits maximum response headers count. If set to 0, no limit will be applied.

#### `request.path`#

Added in: v0.4.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The request path.

#### `request.method`#

Added in: v0.1.97

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The request method.

#### `request.host`#

Added in: v14.5.0, v12.19.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The request host.

#### `request.protocol`#

Added in: v14.5.0, v12.19.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The request protocol.

#### `request.removeHeader(name)`#

Added in: v1.6.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Removes a header that's already defined into headers object.

    
    
    request.removeHeader('Content-Type'); copy

#### `request.reusedSocket`#

Added in: v13.0.0, v12.16.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether the request is send through a reused socket.

When sending request through a keep-alive enabled agent, the underlying socket
might be reused. But if server closes connection at unfortunate time, client
may run into a 'ECONNRESET' error.

    
    
    import http from 'node:http';
    
    // Server has a 5 seconds keep-alive timeout by default
    http
      .createServer((req, res) => {
        res.write('hello\n');
        res.end();
      })
      .listen(3000);
    
    setInterval(() => {
      // Adapting a keep-alive agent
      http.get('http://localhost:3000', { agent }, (res) => {
        res.on('data', (data) => {
          // Do nothing
        });
      });
    }, 5000); // Sending request on 5s interval so it's easy to hit idle timeoutconst http = require('node:http');
    
    // Server has a 5 seconds keep-alive timeout by default
    http
      .createServer((req, res) => {
        res.write('hello\n');
        res.end();
      })
      .listen(3000);
    
    setInterval(() => {
      // Adapting a keep-alive agent
      http.get('http://localhost:3000', { agent }, (res) => {
        res.on('data', (data) => {
          // Do nothing
        });
      });
    }, 5000); // Sending request on 5s interval so it's easy to hit idle timeoutcopy

By marking a request whether it reused socket or not, we can do automatic
error retry base on it.

    
    
    import http from 'node:http';
    const agent = new http.Agent({ keepAlive: true });
    
    function retriableRequest() {
      const req = http
        .get('http://localhost:3000', { agent }, (res) => {
          // ...
        })
        .on('error', (err) => {
          // Check if retry is needed
          if (req.reusedSocket && err.code === 'ECONNRESET') {
            retriableRequest();
          }
        });
    }
    
    retriableRequest();const http = require('node:http');
    const agent = new http.Agent({ keepAlive: true });
    
    function retriableRequest() {
      const req = http
        .get('http://localhost:3000', { agent }, (res) => {
          // ...
        })
        .on('error', (err) => {
          // Check if retry is needed
          if (req.reusedSocket && err.code === 'ECONNRESET') {
            retriableRequest();
          }
        });
    }
    
    retriableRequest();copy

#### `request.setHeader(name, value)`#

Added in: v1.6.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Sets a single header value for headers object. If this header already exists
in the to-be-sent headers, its value will be replaced. Use an array of strings
here to send multiple headers with the same name. Non-string values will be
stored without modification. Therefore, `request.getHeader()` may return non-
string values. However, the non-string values will be converted to strings for
network transmission.

    
    
    request.setHeader('Content-Type', 'application/json'); copy

or

    
    
    request.setHeader('Cookie', ['type=ninja', 'language=javascript']); copy

When the value is a string an exception will be thrown if it contains
characters outside the `latin1` encoding.

If you need to pass UTF-8 characters in the value please encode the value
using the [RFC 8187](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8187.txt) standard.

    
    
    const filename = 'Rock 🎵.txt';
    request.setHeader('Content-Disposition', `attachment; filename*=utf-8''${encodeURIComponent(filename)}`); copy

#### `request.setNoDelay([noDelay])`#

Added in: v0.5.9

  * `noDelay` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Once a socket is assigned to this request and is connected
`socket.setNoDelay()` will be called.

#### `request.setSocketKeepAlive([enable][, initialDelay])`#

Added in: v0.5.9

  * `enable` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
  * `initialDelay` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Once a socket is assigned to this request and is connected
`socket.setKeepAlive()` will be called.

#### `request.setTimeout(timeout[, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.0.0 | Consistently set socket timeout only when the socket connects.  
v0.5.9 | Added in: v0.5.9  
  
  * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Milliseconds before a request times out.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Optional function to be called when a timeout occurs. Same as binding to the `'timeout'` event.
  * Returns: <http.ClientRequest>

Once a socket is assigned to this request and is connected
`socket.setTimeout()` will be called.

#### `request.socket`#

Added in: v0.3.0

  * <stream.Duplex>

Reference to the underlying socket. Usually users will not want to access this
property. In particular, the socket will not emit `'readable'` events because
of how the protocol parser attaches to the socket.

    
    
    import http from 'node:http';
    const options = {
      host: 'www.google.com',
    };
    const req = http.get(options);
    req.end();
    req.once('response', (res) => {
      const ip = req.socket.localAddress;
      const port = req.socket.localPort;
      console.log(`Your IP address is ${ip} and your source port is ${port}.`);
      // Consume response object
    });const http = require('node:http');
    const options = {
      host: 'www.google.com',
    };
    const req = http.get(options);
    req.end();
    req.once('response', (res) => {
      const ip = req.socket.localAddress;
      const port = req.socket.localPort;
      console.log(`Your IP address is ${ip} and your source port is ${port}.`);
      // Consume response object
    });copy

This property is guaranteed to be an instance of the <net.Socket> class, a
subclass of <stream.Duplex>, unless the user specified a socket type other
than <net.Socket>.

#### `request.uncork()`#

Added in: v13.2.0, v12.16.0

See `writable.uncork()`.

#### `request.writableEnded`#

Added in: v12.9.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` after `request.end()` has been called. This property does not
indicate whether the data has been flushed, for this use
`request.writableFinished` instead.

#### `request.writableFinished`#

Added in: v12.7.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` if all data has been flushed to the underlying system, immediately
before the `'finish'` event is emitted.

#### `request.write(chunk[, encoding][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The `chunk` parameter can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v0.1.29 | Added in: v0.1.29  
  
  * `chunk` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Sends a chunk of the body. This method can be called multiple times. If no
`Content-Length` is set, data will automatically be encoded in HTTP Chunked
transfer encoding, so that server knows when the data ends. The `Transfer-
Encoding: chunked` header is added. Calling `request.end()` is necessary to
finish sending the request.

The `encoding` argument is optional and only applies when `chunk` is a string.
Defaults to `'utf8'`.

The `callback` argument is optional and will be called when this chunk of data
is flushed, but only if the chunk is non-empty.

Returns `true` if the entire data was flushed successfully to the kernel
buffer. Returns `false` if all or part of the data was queued in user memory.
`'drain'` will be emitted when the buffer is free again.

When `write` function is called with empty string or buffer, it does nothing
and waits for more input.

### Class: `http.Server`#

Added in: v0.1.17

  * Extends: <net.Server>

#### Event: `'checkContinue'`#

Added in: v0.3.0

  * `request` <http.IncomingMessage>
  * `response` <http.ServerResponse>

Emitted each time a request with an HTTP `Expect: 100-continue` is received.
If this event is not listened for, the server will automatically respond with
a `100 Continue` as appropriate.

Handling this event involves calling `response.writeContinue()` if the client
should continue to send the request body, or generating an appropriate HTTP
response (e.g. 400 Bad Request) if the client should not continue to send the
request body.

When this event is emitted and handled, the `'request'` event will not be
emitted.

#### Event: `'checkExpectation'`#

Added in: v5.5.0

  * `request` <http.IncomingMessage>
  * `response` <http.ServerResponse>

Emitted each time a request with an HTTP `Expect` header is received, where
the value is not `100-continue`. If this event is not listened for, the server
will automatically respond with a `417 Expectation Failed` as appropriate.

When this event is emitted and handled, the `'request'` event will not be
emitted.

#### Event: `'clientError'`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0 | The default behavior will return a 431 Request Header Fields Too Large if a HPE_HEADER_OVERFLOW error occurs.  
v9.4.0 | The `rawPacket` is the current buffer that just parsed. Adding this buffer to the error object of `'clientError'` event is to make it possible that developers can log the broken packet.  
v6.0.0 | The default action of calling `.destroy()` on the `socket` will no longer take place if there are listeners attached for `'clientError'`.  
v0.1.94 | Added in: v0.1.94  
  
  * `exception` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
  * `socket` <stream.Duplex>

If a client connection emits an `'error'` event, it will be forwarded here.
Listener of this event is responsible for closing/destroying the underlying
socket. For example, one may wish to more gracefully close the socket with a
custom HTTP response instead of abruptly severing the connection. The socket
**must be closed or destroyed** before the listener ends.

This event is guaranteed to be passed an instance of the <net.Socket> class, a
subclass of <stream.Duplex>, unless the user specifies a socket type other
than <net.Socket>.

Default behavior is to try close the socket with a HTTP '400 Bad Request', or
a HTTP '431 Request Header Fields Too Large' in the case of a
`HPE_HEADER_OVERFLOW` error. If the socket is not writable or headers of the
current attached `http.ServerResponse` has been sent, it is immediately
destroyed.

`socket` is the `net.Socket` object that the error originated from.

    
    
    import http from 'node:http';
    
    const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
      res.end();
    });
    server.on('clientError', (err, socket) => {
      socket.end('HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request\r\n\r\n');
    });
    server.listen(8000);const http = require('node:http');
    
    const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
      res.end();
    });
    server.on('clientError', (err, socket) => {
      socket.end('HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request\r\n\r\n');
    });
    server.listen(8000);copy

When the `'clientError'` event occurs, there is no `request` or `response`
object, so any HTTP response sent, including response headers and payload,
_must_ be written directly to the `socket` object. Care must be taken to
ensure the response is a properly formatted HTTP response message.

`err` is an instance of `Error` with two extra columns:

  * `bytesParsed`: the bytes count of request packet that Node.js may have parsed correctly;
  * `rawPacket`: the raw packet of current request.

In some cases, the client has already received the response and/or the socket
has already been destroyed, like in case of `ECONNRESET` errors. Before trying
to send data to the socket, it is better to check that it is still writable.

    
    
    server.on('clientError', (err, socket) => {
      if (err.code === 'ECONNRESET' || !socket.writable) {
        return;
      }
    
      socket.end('HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request\r\n\r\n');
    }); copy

#### Event: `'close'`#

Added in: v0.1.4

Emitted when the server closes.

#### Event: `'connect'`#

Added in: v0.7.0

  * `request` <http.IncomingMessage> Arguments for the HTTP request, as it is in the `'request'` event
  * `socket` <stream.Duplex> Network socket between the server and client
  * `head` <Buffer> The first packet of the tunneling stream (may be empty)

Emitted each time a client requests an HTTP `CONNECT` method. If this event is
not listened for, then clients requesting a `CONNECT` method will have their
connections closed.

This event is guaranteed to be passed an instance of the <net.Socket> class, a
subclass of <stream.Duplex>, unless the user specifies a socket type other
than <net.Socket>.

After this event is emitted, the request's socket will not have a `'data'`
event listener, meaning it will need to be bound in order to handle data sent
to the server on that socket.

#### Event: `'connection'`#

Added in: v0.1.0

  * `socket` <stream.Duplex>

This event is emitted when a new TCP stream is established. `socket` is
typically an object of type `net.Socket`. Usually users will not want to
access this event. In particular, the socket will not emit `'readable'` events
because of how the protocol parser attaches to the socket. The `socket` can
also be accessed at `request.socket`.

This event can also be explicitly emitted by users to inject connections into
the HTTP server. In that case, any `Duplex` stream can be passed.

If `socket.setTimeout()` is called here, the timeout will be replaced with
`server.keepAliveTimeout` when the socket has served a request (if
`server.keepAliveTimeout` is non-zero).

This event is guaranteed to be passed an instance of the <net.Socket> class, a
subclass of <stream.Duplex>, unless the user specifies a socket type other
than <net.Socket>.

#### Event: `'dropRequest'`#

Added in: v18.7.0, v16.17.0

  * `request` <http.IncomingMessage> Arguments for the HTTP request, as it is in the `'request'` event
  * `socket` <stream.Duplex> Network socket between the server and client

When the number of requests on a socket reaches the threshold of
`server.maxRequestsPerSocket`, the server will drop new requests and emit
`'dropRequest'` event instead, then send `503` to client.

#### Event: `'request'`#

Added in: v0.1.0

  * `request` <http.IncomingMessage>
  * `response` <http.ServerResponse>

Emitted each time there is a request. There may be multiple requests per
connection (in the case of HTTP Keep-Alive connections).

#### Event: `'upgrade'`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Not listening to this event no longer causes the socket to be destroyed if a client sends an Upgrade header.  
v0.1.94 | Added in: v0.1.94  
  
  * `request` <http.IncomingMessage> Arguments for the HTTP request, as it is in the `'request'` event
  * `socket` <stream.Duplex> Network socket between the server and client
  * `head` <Buffer> The first packet of the upgraded stream (may be empty)

Emitted each time a client requests an HTTP upgrade. Listening to this event
is optional and clients cannot insist on a protocol change.

After this event is emitted, the request's socket will not have a `'data'`
event listener, meaning it will need to be bound in order to handle data sent
to the server on that socket.

This event is guaranteed to be passed an instance of the <net.Socket> class, a
subclass of <stream.Duplex>, unless the user specifies a socket type other
than <net.Socket>.

#### `server.close([callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | The method closes idle connections before returning.  
v0.1.90 | Added in: v0.1.90  
  
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Stops the server from accepting new connections and closes all connections
connected to this server which are not sending a request or waiting for a
response. See `net.Server.close()`.

    
    
    const http = require('node:http');
    
    const server = http.createServer({ keepAliveTimeout: 60000 }, (req, res) => {
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' });
      res.end(JSON.stringify({
        data: 'Hello World!',
      }));
    });
    
    server.listen(8000);
    // Close the server after 10 seconds
    setTimeout(() => {
      server.close(() => {
        console.log('server on port 8000 closed successfully');
      });
    }, 10000); copy

#### `server.closeAllConnections()`#

Added in: v18.2.0

Closes all established HTTP(S) connections connected to this server, including
active connections connected to this server which are sending a request or
waiting for a response. This does _not_ destroy sockets upgraded to a
different protocol, such as WebSocket or HTTP/2.

> This is a forceful way of closing all connections and should be used with
> caution. Whenever using this in conjunction with `server.close`, calling
> this _after_ `server.close` is recommended as to avoid race conditions where
> new connections are created between a call to this and a call to
> `server.close`.
    
    
    const http = require('node:http');
    
    const server = http.createServer({ keepAliveTimeout: 60000 }, (req, res) => {
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' });
      res.end(JSON.stringify({
        data: 'Hello World!',
      }));
    });
    
    server.listen(8000);
    // Close the server after 10 seconds
    setTimeout(() => {
      server.close(() => {
        console.log('server on port 8000 closed successfully');
      });
      // Closes all connections, ensuring the server closes successfully
      server.closeAllConnections();
    }, 10000); copy

#### `server.closeIdleConnections()`#

Added in: v18.2.0

Closes all connections connected to this server which are not sending a
request or waiting for a response.

> Starting with Node.js 19.0.0, there's no need for calling this method in
> conjunction with `server.close` to reap `keep-alive` connections. Using it
> won't cause any harm though, and it can be useful to ensure backwards
> compatibility for libraries and applications that need to support versions
> older than 19.0.0. Whenever using this in conjunction with `server.close`,
> calling this _after_ `server.close` is recommended as to avoid race
> conditions where new connections are created between a call to this and a
> call to `server.close`.
    
    
    const http = require('node:http');
    
    const server = http.createServer({ keepAliveTimeout: 60000 }, (req, res) => {
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' });
      res.end(JSON.stringify({
        data: 'Hello World!',
      }));
    });
    
    server.listen(8000);
    // Close the server after 10 seconds
    setTimeout(() => {
      server.close(() => {
        console.log('server on port 8000 closed successfully');
      });
      // Closes idle connections, such as keep-alive connections. Server will close
      // once remaining active connections are terminated
      server.closeIdleConnections();
    }, 10000); copy

#### `server.headersTimeout`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.4.0, v18.14.0 | The default is now set to the minimum between 60000 (60 seconds) or `requestTimeout`.  
v11.3.0, v10.14.0 | Added in: v11.3.0, v10.14.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** The minimum between `server.requestTimeout` or `60000`.

Limit the amount of time the parser will wait to receive the complete HTTP
headers.

If the timeout expires, the server responds with status 408 without forwarding
the request to the request listener and then closes the connection.

It must be set to a non-zero value (e.g. 120 seconds) to protect against
potential Denial-of-Service attacks in case the server is deployed without a
reverse proxy in front.

#### `server.listen()`#

Starts the HTTP server listening for connections. This method is identical to
`server.listen()` from `net.Server`.

#### `server.listening`#

Added in: v5.7.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Indicates whether or not the server is listening for connections.

#### `server.maxHeadersCount`#

Added in: v0.7.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `2000`

Limits maximum incoming headers count. If set to 0, no limit will be applied.

#### `server.requestTimeout`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | The default request timeout changed from no timeout to 300s (5 minutes).  
v14.11.0 | Added in: v14.11.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `300000`

Sets the timeout value in milliseconds for receiving the entire request from
the client.

If the timeout expires, the server responds with status 408 without forwarding
the request to the request listener and then closes the connection.

It must be set to a non-zero value (e.g. 120 seconds) to protect against
potential Denial-of-Service attacks in case the server is deployed without a
reverse proxy in front.

#### `server.setTimeout([msecs][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.0.0 | The default timeout changed from 120s to 0 (no timeout).  
v0.9.12 | Added in: v0.9.12  
  
  * `msecs` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** 0 (no timeout)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <http.Server>

Sets the timeout value for sockets, and emits a `'timeout'` event on the
Server object, passing the socket as an argument, if a timeout occurs.

If there is a `'timeout'` event listener on the Server object, then it will be
called with the timed-out socket as an argument.

By default, the Server does not timeout sockets. However, if a callback is
assigned to the Server's `'timeout'` event, timeouts must be handled
explicitly.

#### `server.maxRequestsPerSocket`#

Added in: v16.10.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Requests per socket. **Default:** 0 (no limit)

The maximum number of requests socket can handle before closing keep alive
connection.

A value of `0` will disable the limit.

When the limit is reached it will set the `Connection` header value to
`close`, but will not actually close the connection, subsequent requests sent
after the limit is reached will get `503 Service Unavailable` as a response.

#### `server.timeout`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.0.0 | The default timeout changed from 120s to 0 (no timeout).  
v0.9.12 | Added in: v0.9.12  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Timeout in milliseconds. **Default:** 0 (no timeout)

The number of milliseconds of inactivity before a socket is presumed to have
timed out.

A value of `0` will disable the timeout behavior on incoming connections.

The socket timeout logic is set up on connection, so changing this value only
affects new connections to the server, not any existing connections.

#### `server.keepAliveTimeout`#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Timeout in milliseconds. **Default:** `5000` (5 seconds).

The number of milliseconds of inactivity a server needs to wait for additional
incoming data, after it has finished writing the last response, before a
socket will be destroyed. If the server receives new data before the keep-
alive timeout has fired, it will reset the regular inactivity timeout, i.e.,
`server.timeout`.

A value of `0` will disable the keep-alive timeout behavior on incoming
connections. A value of `0` makes the http server behave similarly to Node.js
versions prior to 8.0.0, which did not have a keep-alive timeout.

The socket timeout logic is set up on connection, so changing this value only
affects new connections to the server, not any existing connections.

#### `server[Symbol.asyncDispose]()`#

Added in: v20.4.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Calls `server.close()` and returns a promise that fulfills when the server has
closed.

### Class: `http.ServerResponse`#

Added in: v0.1.17

  * Extends: <http.OutgoingMessage>

This object is created internally by an HTTP server, not by the user. It is
passed as the second parameter to the `'request'` event.

#### Event: `'close'`#

Added in: v0.6.7

Indicates that the response is completed, or its underlying connection was
terminated prematurely (before the response completion).

#### Event: `'finish'`#

Added in: v0.3.6

Emitted when the response has been sent. More specifically, this event is
emitted when the last segment of the response headers and body have been
handed off to the operating system for transmission over the network. It does
not imply that the client has received anything yet.

#### `response.addTrailers(headers)`#

Added in: v0.3.0

  * `headers` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

This method adds HTTP trailing headers (a header but at the end of the
message) to the response.

Trailers will **only** be emitted if chunked encoding is used for the
response; if it is not (e.g. if the request was HTTP/1.0), they will be
silently discarded.

HTTP requires the `Trailer` header to be sent in order to emit trailers, with
a list of the header fields in its value. E.g.,

    
    
    response.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'text/plain',
                              'Trailer': 'Content-MD5' });
    response.write(fileData);
    response.addTrailers({ 'Content-MD5': '7895bf4b8828b55ceaf47747b4bca667' });
    response.end(); copy

Attempting to set a header field name or value that contains invalid
characters will result in a `TypeError` being thrown.

#### `response.connection`#

Added in: v0.3.0Deprecated since: v13.0.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. Use `response.socket`.

  * <stream.Duplex>

See `response.socket`.

#### `response.cork()`#

Added in: v13.2.0, v12.16.0

See `writable.cork()`.

#### `response.end([data[, encoding]][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The `data` parameter can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v10.0.0 | This method now returns a reference to `ServerResponse`.  
v0.1.90 | Added in: v0.1.90  
  
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

This method signals to the server that all of the response headers and body
have been sent; that server should consider this message complete. The method,
`response.end()`, MUST be called on each response.

If `data` is specified, it is similar in effect to calling
`response.write(data, encoding)` followed by `response.end(callback)`.

If `callback` is specified, it will be called when the response stream is
finished.

#### `response.finished`#

Added in: v0.0.2Deprecated since: v13.4.0, v12.16.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. Use `response.writableEnded`.

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `response.finished` property will be `true` if `response.end()` has been
called.

#### `response.flushHeaders()`#

Added in: v1.6.0

Flushes the response headers. See also: `request.flushHeaders()`.

#### `response.getHeader(name)`#

Added in: v0.4.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Reads out a header that's already been queued but not sent to the client. The
name is case-insensitive. The type of the return value depends on the
arguments provided to `response.setHeader()`.

    
    
    response.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/html');
    response.setHeader('Content-Length', Buffer.byteLength(body));
    response.setHeader('Set-Cookie', ['type=ninja', 'language=javascript']);
    const contentType = response.getHeader('content-type');
    // contentType is 'text/html'
    const contentLength = response.getHeader('Content-Length');
    // contentLength is of type number
    const setCookie = response.getHeader('set-cookie');
    // setCookie is of type string[] copy

#### `response.getHeaderNames()`#

Added in: v7.7.0

  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns an array containing the unique names of the current outgoing headers.
All header names are lowercase.

    
    
    response.setHeader('Foo', 'bar');
    response.setHeader('Set-Cookie', ['foo=bar', 'bar=baz']);
    
    const headerNames = response.getHeaderNames();
    // headerNames === ['foo', 'set-cookie'] copy

#### `response.getHeaders()`#

Added in: v7.7.0

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns a shallow copy of the current outgoing headers. Since a shallow copy
is used, array values may be mutated without additional calls to various
header-related http module methods. The keys of the returned object are the
header names and the values are the respective header values. All header names
are lowercase.

The object returned by the `response.getHeaders()` method _does not_
prototypically inherit from the JavaScript `Object`. This means that typical
`Object` methods such as `obj.toString()`, `obj.hasOwnProperty()`, and others
are not defined and _will not work_.

    
    
    response.setHeader('Foo', 'bar');
    response.setHeader('Set-Cookie', ['foo=bar', 'bar=baz']);
    
    const headers = response.getHeaders();
    // headers === { foo: 'bar', 'set-cookie': ['foo=bar', 'bar=baz'] } copy

#### `response.hasHeader(name)`#

Added in: v7.7.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the header identified by `name` is currently set in the
outgoing headers. The header name matching is case-insensitive.

    
    
    const hasContentType = response.hasHeader('content-type'); copy

#### `response.headersSent`#

Added in: v0.9.3

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Boolean (read-only). True if headers were sent, false otherwise.

#### `response.removeHeader(name)`#

Added in: v0.4.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Removes a header that's queued for implicit sending.

    
    
    response.removeHeader('Content-Encoding'); copy

#### `response.req`#

Added in: v15.7.0

  * <http.IncomingMessage>

A reference to the original HTTP `request` object.

#### `response.sendDate`#

Added in: v0.7.5

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

When true, the Date header will be automatically generated and sent in the
response if it is not already present in the headers. Defaults to true.

This should only be disabled for testing; HTTP requires the Date header in
responses.

#### `response.setHeader(name, value)`#

Added in: v0.4.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: <http.ServerResponse>

Returns the response object.

Sets a single header value for implicit headers. If this header already exists
in the to-be-sent headers, its value will be replaced. Use an array of strings
here to send multiple headers with the same name. Non-string values will be
stored without modification. Therefore, `response.getHeader()` may return non-
string values. However, the non-string values will be converted to strings for
network transmission. The same response object is returned to the caller, to
enable call chaining.

    
    
    response.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/html'); copy

or

    
    
    response.setHeader('Set-Cookie', ['type=ninja', 'language=javascript']); copy

Attempting to set a header field name or value that contains invalid
characters will result in a `TypeError` being thrown.

When headers have been set with `response.setHeader()`, they will be merged
with any headers passed to `response.writeHead()`, with the headers passed to
`response.writeHead()` given precedence.

    
    
    // Returns content-type = text/plain
    const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
      res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/html');
      res.setHeader('X-Foo', 'bar');
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'text/plain' });
      res.end('ok');
    }); copy

If `response.writeHead()` method is called and this method has not been
called, it will directly write the supplied header values onto the network
channel without caching internally, and the `response.getHeader()` on the
header will not yield the expected result. If progressive population of
headers is desired with potential future retrieval and modification, use
`response.setHeader()` instead of `response.writeHead()`.

#### `response.setTimeout(msecs[, callback])`#

Added in: v0.9.12

  * `msecs` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <http.ServerResponse>

Sets the Socket's timeout value to `msecs`. If a callback is provided, then it
is added as a listener on the `'timeout'` event on the response object.

If no `'timeout'` listener is added to the request, the response, or the
server, then sockets are destroyed when they time out. If a handler is
assigned to the request, the response, or the server's `'timeout'` events,
timed out sockets must be handled explicitly.

#### `response.socket`#

Added in: v0.3.0

  * <stream.Duplex>

Reference to the underlying socket. Usually users will not want to access this
property. In particular, the socket will not emit `'readable'` events because
of how the protocol parser attaches to the socket. After `response.end()`, the
property is nulled.

    
    
    import http from 'node:http';
    const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
      const ip = res.socket.remoteAddress;
      const port = res.socket.remotePort;
      res.end(`Your IP address is ${ip} and your source port is ${port}.`);
    }).listen(3000);const http = require('node:http');
    const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
      const ip = res.socket.remoteAddress;
      const port = res.socket.remotePort;
      res.end(`Your IP address is ${ip} and your source port is ${port}.`);
    }).listen(3000);copy

This property is guaranteed to be an instance of the <net.Socket> class, a
subclass of <stream.Duplex>, unless the user specified a socket type other
than <net.Socket>.

#### `response.statusCode`#

Added in: v0.4.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `200`

When using implicit headers (not calling `response.writeHead()` explicitly),
this property controls the status code that will be sent to the client when
the headers get flushed.

    
    
    response.statusCode = 404; copy

After response header was sent to the client, this property indicates the
status code which was sent out.

#### `response.statusMessage`#

Added in: v0.11.8

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

When using implicit headers (not calling `response.writeHead()` explicitly),
this property controls the status message that will be sent to the client when
the headers get flushed. If this is left as `undefined` then the standard
message for the status code will be used.

    
    
    response.statusMessage = 'Not found'; copy

After response header was sent to the client, this property indicates the
status message which was sent out.

#### `response.strictContentLength`#

Added in: v18.10.0, v16.18.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`

If set to `true`, Node.js will check whether the `Content-Length` header value
and the size of the body, in bytes, are equal. Mismatching the `Content-
Length` header value will result in an `Error` being thrown, identified by
`code:` `'ERR_HTTP_CONTENT_LENGTH_MISMATCH'`.

#### `response.uncork()`#

Added in: v13.2.0, v12.16.0

See `writable.uncork()`.

#### `response.writableEnded`#

Added in: v12.9.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` after `response.end()` has been called. This property does not
indicate whether the data has been flushed, for this use
`response.writableFinished` instead.

#### `response.writableFinished`#

Added in: v12.7.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` if all data has been flushed to the underlying system, immediately
before the `'finish'` event is emitted.

#### `response.write(chunk[, encoding][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The `chunk` parameter can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v0.1.29 | Added in: v0.1.29  
  
  * `chunk` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'utf8'`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

If this method is called and `response.writeHead()` has not been called, it
will switch to implicit header mode and flush the implicit headers.

This sends a chunk of the response body. This method may be called multiple
times to provide successive parts of the body.

If `rejectNonStandardBodyWrites` is set to true in `createServer` then writing
to the body is not allowed when the request method or response status do not
support content. If an attempt is made to write to the body for a HEAD request
or as part of a `204` or `304`response, a synchronous `Error` with the code
`ERR_HTTP_BODY_NOT_ALLOWED` is thrown.

`chunk` can be a string or a buffer. If `chunk` is a string, the second
parameter specifies how to encode it into a byte stream. `callback` will be
called when this chunk of data is flushed.

This is the raw HTTP body and has nothing to do with higher-level multi-part
body encodings that may be used.

The first time `response.write()` is called, it will send the buffered header
information and the first chunk of the body to the client. The second time
`response.write()` is called, Node.js assumes data will be streamed, and sends
the new data separately. That is, the response is buffered up to the first
chunk of the body.

Returns `true` if the entire data was flushed successfully to the kernel
buffer. Returns `false` if all or part of the data was queued in user memory.
`'drain'` will be emitted when the buffer is free again.

#### `response.writeContinue()`#

Added in: v0.3.0

Sends an HTTP/1.1 100 Continue message to the client, indicating that the
request body should be sent. See the `'checkContinue'` event on `Server`.

#### `response.writeEarlyHints(hints[, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.11.0 | Allow passing hints as an object.  
v18.11.0 | Added in: v18.11.0  
  
  * `hints` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Sends an HTTP/1.1 103 Early Hints message to the client with a Link header,
indicating that the user agent can preload/preconnect the linked resources.
The `hints` is an object containing the values of headers to be sent with
early hints message. The optional `callback` argument will be called when the
response message has been written.

**Example**

    
    
    const earlyHintsLink = '</styles.css>; rel=preload; as=style';
    response.writeEarlyHints({
      'link': earlyHintsLink,
    });
    
    const earlyHintsLinks = [
      '</styles.css>; rel=preload; as=style',
      '</scripts.js>; rel=preload; as=script',
    ];
    response.writeEarlyHints({
      'link': earlyHintsLinks,
      'x-trace-id': 'id for diagnostics',
    });
    
    const earlyHintsCallback = () => console.log('early hints message sent');
    response.writeEarlyHints({
      'link': earlyHintsLinks,
    }, earlyHintsCallback); copy

#### `response.writeHead(statusCode[, statusMessage][, headers])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.14.0 | Allow passing headers as an array.  
v11.10.0, v10.17.0 | Return `this` from `writeHead()` to allow chaining with `end()`.  
v5.11.0, v4.4.5 | A `RangeError` is thrown if `statusCode` is not a number in the range `[100, 999]`.  
v0.1.30 | Added in: v0.1.30  
  
  * `statusCode` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `statusMessage` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `headers` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array)
  * Returns: <http.ServerResponse>

Sends a response header to the request. The status code is a 3-digit HTTP
status code, like `404`. The last argument, `headers`, are the response
headers. Optionally one can give a human-readable `statusMessage` as the
second argument.

`headers` may be an `Array` where the keys and values are in the same list. It
is _not_ a list of tuples. So, the even-numbered offsets are key values, and
the odd-numbered offsets are the associated values. The array is in the same
format as `request.rawHeaders`.

Returns a reference to the `ServerResponse`, so that calls can be chained.

    
    
    const body = 'hello world';
    response
      .writeHead(200, {
        'Content-Length': Buffer.byteLength(body),
        'Content-Type': 'text/plain',
      })
      .end(body); copy

This method must only be called once on a message and it must be called before
`response.end()` is called.

If `response.write()` or `response.end()` are called before calling this, the
implicit/mutable headers will be calculated and call this function.

When headers have been set with `response.setHeader()`, they will be merged
with any headers passed to `response.writeHead()`, with the headers passed to
`response.writeHead()` given precedence.

If this method is called and `response.setHeader()` has not been called, it
will directly write the supplied header values onto the network channel
without caching internally, and the `response.getHeader()` on the header will
not yield the expected result. If progressive population of headers is desired
with potential future retrieval and modification, use `response.setHeader()`
instead.

    
    
    // Returns content-type = text/plain
    const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
      res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/html');
      res.setHeader('X-Foo', 'bar');
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'text/plain' });
      res.end('ok');
    }); copy

`Content-Length` is read in bytes, not characters. Use `Buffer.byteLength()`
to determine the length of the body in bytes. Node.js will check whether
`Content-Length` and the length of the body which has been transmitted are
equal or not.

Attempting to set a header field name or value that contains invalid
characters will result in a [`Error`][] being thrown.

#### `response.writeProcessing()`#

Added in: v10.0.0

Sends a HTTP/1.1 102 Processing message to the client, indicating that the
request body should be sent.

### Class: `http.IncomingMessage`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.5.0 | The `destroyed` value returns `true` after the incoming data is consumed.  
v13.1.0, v12.16.0 | The `readableHighWaterMark` value mirrors that of the socket.  
v0.1.17 | Added in: v0.1.17  
  
  * Extends: <stream.Readable>

An `IncomingMessage` object is created by `http.Server` or
`http.ClientRequest` and passed as the first argument to the `'request'` and
`'response'` event respectively. It may be used to access response status,
headers, and data.

Different from its `socket` value which is a subclass of <stream.Duplex>, the
`IncomingMessage` itself extends <stream.Readable> and is created separately
to parse and emit the incoming HTTP headers and payload, as the underlying
socket may be reused multiple times in case of keep-alive.

#### Event: `'aborted'`#

Added in: v0.3.8Deprecated since: v17.0.0, v16.12.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. Listen for `'close'` event instead.

Emitted when the request has been aborted.

#### Event: `'close'`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | The close event is now emitted when the request has been completed and not when the underlying socket is closed.  
v0.4.2 | Added in: v0.4.2  
  
Emitted when the request has been completed.

#### `message.aborted`#

Added in: v10.1.0Deprecated since: v17.0.0, v16.12.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. Check `message.destroyed` from <stream.Readable>.

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `message.aborted` property will be `true` if the request has been aborted.

#### `message.complete`#

Added in: v0.3.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `message.complete` property will be `true` if a complete HTTP message has
been received and successfully parsed.

This property is particularly useful as a means of determining if a client or
server fully transmitted a message before a connection was terminated:

    
    
    const req = http.request({
      host: '127.0.0.1',
      port: 8080,
      method: 'POST',
    }, (res) => {
      res.resume();
      res.on('end', () => {
        if (!res.complete)
          console.error(
            'The connection was terminated while the message was still being sent');
      });
    }); copy

#### `message.connection`#

Added in: v0.1.90Deprecated since: v16.0.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. Use `message.socket`.

Alias for `message.socket`.

#### `message.destroy([error])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.5.0, v12.19.0 | The function returns `this` for consistency with other Readable streams.  
v0.3.0 | Added in: v0.3.0  
  
  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

Calls `destroy()` on the socket that received the `IncomingMessage`. If
`error` is provided, an `'error'` event is emitted on the socket and `error`
is passed as an argument to any listeners on the event.

#### `message.headers`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.5.0, v18.14.0 | The `joinDuplicateHeaders` option in the `http.request()` and `http.createServer()` functions ensures that duplicate headers are not discarded, but rather combined using a comma separator, in accordance with RFC 9110 Section 5.3.  
v15.1.0 | `message.headers` is now lazily computed using an accessor property on the prototype and is no longer enumerable.  
v0.1.5 | Added in: v0.1.5  
  
  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The request/response headers object.

Key-value pairs of header names and values. Header names are lower-cased.

    
    
    // Prints something like:
    //
    // { 'user-agent': 'curl/7.22.0',
    //   host: '127.0.0.1:8000',
    //   accept: '*/*' }
    console.log(request.headers); copy

Duplicates in raw headers are handled in the following ways, depending on the
header name:

  * Duplicates of `age`, `authorization`, `content-length`, `content-type`, `etag`, `expires`, `from`, `host`, `if-modified-since`, `if-unmodified-since`, `last-modified`, `location`, `max-forwards`, `proxy-authorization`, `referer`, `retry-after`, `server`, or `user-agent` are discarded. To allow duplicate values of the headers listed above to be joined, use the option `joinDuplicateHeaders` in `http.request()` and `http.createServer()`. See RFC 9110 Section 5.3 for more information.
  * `set-cookie` is always an array. Duplicates are added to the array.
  * For duplicate `cookie` headers, the values are joined together with `; `.
  * For all other headers, the values are joined together with `, `.

#### `message.headersDistinct`#

Added in: v18.3.0, v16.17.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Similar to `message.headers`, but there is no join logic and the values are
always arrays of strings, even for headers received just once.

    
    
    // Prints something like:
    //
    // { 'user-agent': ['curl/7.22.0'],
    //   host: ['127.0.0.1:8000'],
    //   accept: ['*/*'] }
    console.log(request.headersDistinct); copy

#### `message.httpVersion`#

Added in: v0.1.1

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

In case of server request, the HTTP version sent by the client. In the case of
client response, the HTTP version of the connected-to server. Probably either
`'1.1'` or `'1.0'`.

Also `message.httpVersionMajor` is the first integer and
`message.httpVersionMinor` is the second.

#### `message.method`#

Added in: v0.1.1

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

**Only valid for request obtained from`http.Server`.**

The request method as a string. Read only. Examples: `'GET'`, `'DELETE'`.

#### `message.rawHeaders`#

Added in: v0.11.6

  * [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The raw request/response headers list exactly as they were received.

The keys and values are in the same list. It is _not_ a list of tuples. So,
the even-numbered offsets are key values, and the odd-numbered offsets are the
associated values.

Header names are not lowercased, and duplicates are not merged.

    
    
    // Prints something like:
    //
    // [ 'user-agent',
    //   'this is invalid because there can be only one',
    //   'User-Agent',
    //   'curl/7.22.0',
    //   'Host',
    //   '127.0.0.1:8000',
    //   'ACCEPT',
    //   '*/*' ]
    console.log(request.rawHeaders); copy

#### `message.rawTrailers`#

Added in: v0.11.6

  * [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The raw request/response trailer keys and values exactly as they were
received. Only populated at the `'end'` event.

#### `message.setTimeout(msecs[, callback])`#

Added in: v0.5.9

  * `msecs` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <http.IncomingMessage>

Calls `message.socket.setTimeout(msecs, callback)`.

#### `message.socket`#

Added in: v0.3.0

  * <stream.Duplex>

The `net.Socket` object associated with the connection.

With HTTPS support, use `request.socket.getPeerCertificate()` to obtain the
client's authentication details.

This property is guaranteed to be an instance of the <net.Socket> class, a
subclass of <stream.Duplex>, unless the user specified a socket type other
than <net.Socket> or internally nulled.

#### `message.statusCode`#

Added in: v0.1.1

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

**Only valid for response obtained from`http.ClientRequest`.**

The 3-digit HTTP response status code. E.G. `404`.

#### `message.statusMessage`#

Added in: v0.11.10

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

**Only valid for response obtained from`http.ClientRequest`.**

The HTTP response status message (reason phrase). E.G. `OK` or `Internal
Server Error`.

#### `message.trailers`#

Added in: v0.3.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The request/response trailers object. Only populated at the `'end'` event.

#### `message.trailersDistinct`#

Added in: v18.3.0, v16.17.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Similar to `message.trailers`, but there is no join logic and the values are
always arrays of strings, even for headers received just once. Only populated
at the `'end'` event.

#### `message.url`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

**Only valid for request obtained from`http.Server`.**

Request URL string. This contains only the URL that is present in the actual
HTTP request. Take the following request:

    
    
    GET /status?name=ryan HTTP/1.1
    Accept: text/plain copy

To parse the URL into its parts:

    
    
    new URL(`http://${process.env.HOST ?? 'localhost'}${request.url}`); copy

When `request.url` is `'/status?name=ryan'` and `process.env.HOST` is
undefined:

    
    
    $ node
    > new URL(`http://${process.env.HOST ?? 'localhost'}${request.url}`);
    URL {
      href: 'http://localhost/status?name=ryan',
      origin: 'http://localhost',
      protocol: 'http:',
      username: '',
      password: '',
      host: 'localhost',
      hostname: 'localhost',
      port: '',
      pathname: '/status',
      search: '?name=ryan',
      searchParams: URLSearchParams { 'name' => 'ryan' },
      hash: ''
    } copy

Ensure that you set `process.env.HOST` to the server's host name, or consider
replacing this part entirely. If using `req.headers.host`, ensure proper
validation is used, as clients may specify a custom `Host` header.

### Class: `http.OutgoingMessage`#

Added in: v0.1.17

  * Extends: <Stream>

This class serves as the parent class of `http.ClientRequest` and
`http.ServerResponse`. It is an abstract outgoing message from the perspective
of the participants of an HTTP transaction.

#### Event: `'drain'`#

Added in: v0.3.6

Emitted when the buffer of the message is free again.

#### Event: `'finish'`#

Added in: v0.1.17

Emitted when the transmission is finished successfully.

#### Event: `'prefinish'`#

Added in: v0.11.6

Emitted after `outgoingMessage.end()` is called. When the event is emitted,
all data has been processed but not necessarily completely flushed.

#### `outgoingMessage.addTrailers(headers)`#

Added in: v0.3.0

  * `headers` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Adds HTTP trailers (headers but at the end of the message) to the message.

Trailers will **only** be emitted if the message is chunked encoded. If not,
the trailers will be silently discarded.

HTTP requires the `Trailer` header to be sent to emit trailers, with a list of
header field names in its value, e.g.

    
    
    message.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'text/plain',
                             'Trailer': 'Content-MD5' });
    message.write(fileData);
    message.addTrailers({ 'Content-MD5': '7895bf4b8828b55ceaf47747b4bca667' });
    message.end(); copy

Attempting to set a header field name or value that contains invalid
characters will result in a `TypeError` being thrown.

#### `outgoingMessage.appendHeader(name, value)`#

Added in: v18.3.0, v16.17.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Header name
  * `value` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Header value
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

Append a single header value to the header object.

If the value is an array, this is equivalent to calling this method multiple
times.

If there were no previous values for the header, this is equivalent to calling
`outgoingMessage.setHeader(name, value)`.

Depending of the value of `options.uniqueHeaders` when the client request or
the server were created, this will end up in the header being sent multiple
times or a single time with values joined using `; `.

#### `outgoingMessage.connection`#

Added in: v0.3.0Deprecated since: v15.12.0, v14.17.1

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `outgoingMessage.socket` instead.

Alias of `outgoingMessage.socket`.

#### `outgoingMessage.cork()`#

Added in: v13.2.0, v12.16.0

See `writable.cork()`.

#### `outgoingMessage.destroy([error])`#

Added in: v0.3.0

  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) Optional, an error to emit with `error` event
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

Destroys the message. Once a socket is associated with the message and is
connected, that socket will be destroyed as well.

#### `outgoingMessage.end(chunk[, encoding][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The `chunk` parameter can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v0.11.6 | add `callback` argument.  
v0.1.90 | Added in: v0.1.90  
  
  * `chunk` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Optional, **Default** : `utf8`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Optional
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

Finishes the outgoing message. If any parts of the body are unsent, it will
flush them to the underlying system. If the message is chunked, it will send
the terminating chunk `0\r\n\r\n`, and send the trailers (if any).

If `chunk` is specified, it is equivalent to calling
`outgoingMessage.write(chunk, encoding)`, followed by
`outgoingMessage.end(callback)`.

If `callback` is provided, it will be called when the message is finished
(equivalent to a listener of the `'finish'` event).

#### `outgoingMessage.flushHeaders()`#

Added in: v1.6.0

Flushes the message headers.

For efficiency reason, Node.js normally buffers the message headers until
`outgoingMessage.end()` is called or the first chunk of message data is
written. It then tries to pack the headers and data into a single TCP packet.

It is usually desired (it saves a TCP round-trip), but not when the first data
is not sent until possibly much later. `outgoingMessage.flushHeaders()`
bypasses the optimization and kickstarts the message.

#### `outgoingMessage.getHeader(name)`#

Added in: v0.4.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of header
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

Gets the value of the HTTP header with the given name. If that header is not
set, the returned value will be `undefined`.

#### `outgoingMessage.getHeaderNames()`#

Added in: v7.7.0

  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns an array containing the unique names of the current outgoing headers.
All names are lowercase.

#### `outgoingMessage.getHeaders()`#

Added in: v7.7.0

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns a shallow copy of the current outgoing headers. Since a shallow copy
is used, array values may be mutated without additional calls to various
header-related HTTP module methods. The keys of the returned object are the
header names and the values are the respective header values. All header names
are lowercase.

The object returned by the `outgoingMessage.getHeaders()` method does not
prototypically inherit from the JavaScript `Object`. This means that typical
`Object` methods such as `obj.toString()`, `obj.hasOwnProperty()`, and others
are not defined and will not work.

    
    
    outgoingMessage.setHeader('Foo', 'bar');
    outgoingMessage.setHeader('Set-Cookie', ['foo=bar', 'bar=baz']);
    
    const headers = outgoingMessage.getHeaders();
    // headers === { foo: 'bar', 'set-cookie': ['foo=bar', 'bar=baz'] } copy

#### `outgoingMessage.hasHeader(name)`#

Added in: v7.7.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the header identified by `name` is currently set in the
outgoing headers. The header name is case-insensitive.

    
    
    const hasContentType = outgoingMessage.hasHeader('content-type'); copy

#### `outgoingMessage.headersSent`#

Added in: v0.9.3

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Read-only. `true` if the headers were sent, otherwise `false`.

#### `outgoingMessage.pipe()`#

Added in: v9.0.0

Overrides the `stream.pipe()` method inherited from the legacy `Stream` class
which is the parent class of `http.OutgoingMessage`.

Calling this method will throw an `Error` because `outgoingMessage` is a
write-only stream.

#### `outgoingMessage.removeHeader(name)`#

Added in: v0.4.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Header name

Removes a header that is queued for implicit sending.

    
    
    outgoingMessage.removeHeader('Content-Encoding'); copy

#### `outgoingMessage.setHeader(name, value)`#

Added in: v0.4.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Header name
  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Header value
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

Sets a single header value. If the header already exists in the to-be-sent
headers, its value will be replaced. Use an array of strings to send multiple
headers with the same name.

#### `outgoingMessage.setHeaders(headers)`#

Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0

  * `headers` [<Headers>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Headers) | [<Map>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map)
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

Sets multiple header values for implicit headers. `headers` must be an
instance of `Headers` or `Map`, if a header already exists in the to-be-sent
headers, its value will be replaced.

    
    
    const headers = new Headers({ foo: 'bar' });
    outgoingMessage.setHeaders(headers); copy

or

    
    
    const headers = new Map([['foo', 'bar']]);
    outgoingMessage.setHeaders(headers); copy

When headers have been set with `outgoingMessage.setHeaders()`, they will be
merged with any headers passed to `response.writeHead()`, with the headers
passed to `response.writeHead()` given precedence.

    
    
    // Returns content-type = text/plain
    const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
      const headers = new Headers({ 'Content-Type': 'text/html' });
      res.setHeaders(headers);
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'text/plain' });
      res.end('ok');
    }); copy

#### `outgoingMessage.setTimeout(msesc[, callback])`#

Added in: v0.9.12

  * `msesc` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Optional function to be called when a timeout occurs. Same as binding to the `timeout` event.
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

Once a socket is associated with the message and is connected,
`socket.setTimeout()` will be called with `msecs` as the first parameter.

#### `outgoingMessage.socket`#

Added in: v0.3.0

  * <stream.Duplex>

Reference to the underlying socket. Usually, users will not want to access
this property.

After calling `outgoingMessage.end()`, this property will be nulled.

#### `outgoingMessage.uncork()`#

Added in: v13.2.0, v12.16.0

See `writable.uncork()`

#### `outgoingMessage.writableCorked`#

Added in: v13.2.0, v12.16.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The number of times `outgoingMessage.cork()` has been called.

#### `outgoingMessage.writableEnded`#

Added in: v12.9.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` if `outgoingMessage.end()` has been called. This property does not
indicate whether the data has been flushed. For that purpose, use
`message.writableFinished` instead.

#### `outgoingMessage.writableFinished`#

Added in: v12.7.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` if all data has been flushed to the underlying system.

#### `outgoingMessage.writableHighWaterMark`#

Added in: v12.9.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `highWaterMark` of the underlying socket if assigned. Otherwise, the
default buffer level when `writable.write()` starts returning false (`16384`).

#### `outgoingMessage.writableLength`#

Added in: v12.9.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The number of buffered bytes.

#### `outgoingMessage.writableObjectMode`#

Added in: v12.9.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Always `false`.

#### `outgoingMessage.write(chunk[, encoding][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The `chunk` parameter can now be a `Uint8Array`.  
v0.11.6 | The `callback` argument was added.  
v0.1.29 | Added in: v0.1.29  
  
  * `chunk` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default** : `utf8`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Sends a chunk of the body. This method can be called multiple times.

The `encoding` argument is only relevant when `chunk` is a string. Defaults to
`'utf8'`.

The `callback` argument is optional and will be called when this chunk of data
is flushed.

Returns `true` if the entire data was flushed successfully to the kernel
buffer. Returns `false` if all or part of the data was queued in the user
memory. The `'drain'` event will be emitted when the buffer is free again.

### `http.METHODS`#

Added in: v0.11.8

  * [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

A list of the HTTP methods that are supported by the parser.

### `http.STATUS_CODES`#

Added in: v0.1.22

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

A collection of all the standard HTTP response status codes, and the short
description of each. For example, `http.STATUS_CODES[404] === 'Not Found'`.

### `http.createServer([options][, requestListener])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.1.0, v18.17.0 | The `highWaterMark` option is supported now.  
v18.0.0 | The `requestTimeout`, `headersTimeout`, `keepAliveTimeout`, and `connectionsCheckingInterval` options are supported now.  
v18.0.0 | The `noDelay` option now defaults to `true`.  
v17.7.0, v16.15.0 | The `noDelay`, `keepAlive` and `keepAliveInitialDelay` options are supported now.  
v13.3.0 | The `maxHeaderSize` option is supported now.  
v13.8.0, v12.15.0, v10.19.0 | The `insecureHTTPParser` option is supported now.  
v9.6.0, v8.12.0 | The `options` argument is supported now.  
v0.1.13 | Added in: v0.1.13  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

    * `connectionsCheckingInterval`: Sets the interval value in milliseconds to check for request and headers timeout in incomplete requests. **Default:** `30000`.
    * `headersTimeout`: Sets the timeout value in milliseconds for receiving the complete HTTP headers from the client. See `server.headersTimeout` for more information. **Default:** `60000`.
    * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Optionally overrides all `socket`s' `readableHighWaterMark` and `writableHighWaterMark`. This affects `highWaterMark` property of both `IncomingMessage` and `ServerResponse`. **Default:** See `stream.getDefaultHighWaterMark()`.
    * `insecureHTTPParser` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `true`, it will use a HTTP parser with leniency flags enabled. Using the insecure parser should be avoided. See `--insecure-http-parser` for more information. **Default:** `false`.
    * `IncomingMessage` <http.IncomingMessage> Specifies the `IncomingMessage` class to be used. Useful for extending the original `IncomingMessage`. **Default:** `IncomingMessage`.
    * `joinDuplicateHeaders` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `true`, this option allows joining the field line values of multiple headers in a request with a comma (`, `) instead of discarding the duplicates. For more information, refer to `message.headers`. **Default:** `false`.
    * `keepAlive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `true`, it enables keep-alive functionality on the socket immediately after a new incoming connection is received, similarly on what is done in [`socket.setKeepAlive([enable][, initialDelay])`][`socket.setKeepAlive(enable, initialDelay)`]. **Default:** `false`.
    * `keepAliveInitialDelay` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) If set to a positive number, it sets the initial delay before the first keepalive probe is sent on an idle socket. **Default:** `0`.
    * `keepAliveTimeout`: The number of milliseconds of inactivity a server needs to wait for additional incoming data, after it has finished writing the last response, before a socket will be destroyed. See `server.keepAliveTimeout` for more information. **Default:** `5000`.
    * `maxHeaderSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Optionally overrides the value of `--max-http-header-size` for requests received by this server, i.e. the maximum length of request headers in bytes. **Default:** 16384 (16 KiB).
    * `noDelay` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `true`, it disables the use of Nagle's algorithm immediately after a new incoming connection is received. **Default:** `true`.
    * `requestTimeout`: Sets the timeout value in milliseconds for receiving the entire request from the client. See `server.requestTimeout` for more information. **Default:** `300000`.
    * `requireHostHeader` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `true`, it forces the server to respond with a 400 (Bad Request) status code to any HTTP/1.1 request message that lacks a Host header (as mandated by the specification). **Default:** `true`.
    * `ServerResponse` <http.ServerResponse> Specifies the `ServerResponse` class to be used. Useful for extending the original `ServerResponse`. **Default:** `ServerResponse`.
    * `uniqueHeaders` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) A list of response headers that should be sent only once. If the header's value is an array, the items will be joined using `; `.
    * `rejectNonStandardBodyWrites` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `true`, an error is thrown when writing to an HTTP response which does not have a body. **Default:** `false`.
  * `requestListener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

  * Returns: <http.Server>

Returns a new instance of `http.Server`.

The `requestListener` is a function which is automatically added to the
`'request'` event.

    
    
    import http from 'node:http';
    
    // Create a local server to receive data from
    const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' });
      res.end(JSON.stringify({
        data: 'Hello World!',
      }));
    });
    
    server.listen(8000);const http = require('node:http');
    
    // Create a local server to receive data from
    const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' });
      res.end(JSON.stringify({
        data: 'Hello World!',
      }));
    });
    
    server.listen(8000);copy
    
    
    import http from 'node:http';
    
    // Create a local server to receive data from
    const server = http.createServer();
    
    // Listen to the request event
    server.on('request', (request, res) => {
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' });
      res.end(JSON.stringify({
        data: 'Hello World!',
      }));
    });
    
    server.listen(8000);const http = require('node:http');
    
    // Create a local server to receive data from
    const server = http.createServer();
    
    // Listen to the request event
    server.on('request', (request, res) => {
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' });
      res.end(JSON.stringify({
        data: 'Hello World!',
      }));
    });
    
    server.listen(8000);copy

### `http.get(options[, callback])`#

### `http.get(url[, options][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.9.0 | The `url` parameter can now be passed along with a separate `options` object.  
v7.5.0 | The `options` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object.  
v0.3.6 | Added in: v0.3.6  
  
  * `url` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Accepts the same `options` as `http.request()`, with the method set to GET by default.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <http.ClientRequest>

Since most requests are GET requests without bodies, Node.js provides this
convenience method. The only difference between this method and
`http.request()` is that it sets the method to GET by default and calls
`req.end()` automatically. The callback must take care to consume the response
data for reasons stated in `http.ClientRequest` section.

The `callback` is invoked with a single argument that is an instance of
`http.IncomingMessage`.

JSON fetching example:

    
    
    http.get('http://localhost:8000/', (res) => {
      const { statusCode } = res;
      const contentType = res.headers['content-type'];
    
      let error;
      // Any 2xx status code signals a successful response but
      // here we're only checking for 200.
      if (statusCode !== 200) {
        error = new Error('Request Failed.\n' +
                          `Status Code: ${statusCode}`);
      } else if (!/^application\/json/.test(contentType)) {
        error = new Error('Invalid content-type.\n' +
                          `Expected application/json but received ${contentType}`);
      }
      if (error) {
        console.error(error.message);
        // Consume response data to free up memory
        res.resume();
        return;
      }
    
      res.setEncoding('utf8');
      let rawData = '';
      res.on('data', (chunk) => { rawData += chunk; });
      res.on('end', () => {
        try {
          const parsedData = JSON.parse(rawData);
          console.log(parsedData);
        } catch (e) {
          console.error(e.message);
        }
      });
    }).on('error', (e) => {
      console.error(`Got error: ${e.message}`);
    });
    
    // Create a local server to receive data from
    const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'application/json' });
      res.end(JSON.stringify({
        data: 'Hello World!',
      }));
    });
    
    server.listen(8000); copy

### `http.globalAgent`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | The agent now uses HTTP Keep-Alive and a 5 second timeout by default.  
v0.5.9 | Added in: v0.5.9  
  
  * <http.Agent>

Global instance of `Agent` which is used as the default for all HTTP client
requests. Diverges from a default `Agent` configuration by having `keepAlive`
enabled and a `timeout` of 5 seconds.

### `http.maxHeaderSize`#

Added in: v11.6.0, v10.15.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Read-only property specifying the maximum allowed size of HTTP headers in
bytes. Defaults to 16 KiB. Configurable using the `--max-http-header-size` CLI
option.

This can be overridden for servers and client requests by passing the
`maxHeaderSize` option.

### `http.request(options[, callback])`#

### `http.request(url[, options][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.7.0, v14.18.0 | When using a `URL` object parsed username and password will now be properly URI decoded.  
v15.3.0, v14.17.0 | It is possible to abort a request with an AbortSignal.  
v13.3.0 | The `maxHeaderSize` option is supported now.  
v13.8.0, v12.15.0, v10.19.0 | The `insecureHTTPParser` option is supported now.  
v10.9.0 | The `url` parameter can now be passed along with a separate `options` object.  
v7.5.0 | The `options` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object.  
v0.3.6 | Added in: v0.3.6  
  
  * `url` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `agent` <http.Agent> | [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Controls `Agent` behavior. Possible values: 
      * `undefined` (default): use `http.globalAgent` for this host and port.
      * `Agent` object: explicitly use the passed in `Agent`.
      * `false`: causes a new `Agent` with default values to be used.
    * `auth` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Basic authentication (`'user:password'`) to compute an Authorization header.
    * `createConnection` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A function that produces a socket/stream to use for the request when the `agent` option is not used. This can be used to avoid creating a custom `Agent` class just to override the default `createConnection` function. See `agent.createConnection()` for more details. Any `Duplex` stream is a valid return value.
    * `defaultPort` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Default port for the protocol. **Default:** `agent.defaultPort` if an `Agent` is used, else `undefined`.
    * `family` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) IP address family to use when resolving `host` or `hostname`. Valid values are `4` or `6`. When unspecified, both IP v4 and v6 will be used.
    * `headers` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An object containing request headers.
    * `hints` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Optional `dns.lookup()` hints.
    * `host` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A domain name or IP address of the server to issue the request to. **Default:** `'localhost'`.
    * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Alias for `host`. To support `url.parse()`, `hostname` will be used if both `host` and `hostname` are specified.
    * `insecureHTTPParser` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `true`, it will use a HTTP parser with leniency flags enabled. Using the insecure parser should be avoided. See `--insecure-http-parser` for more information. **Default:** `false`
    * `joinDuplicateHeaders` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) It joins the field line values of multiple headers in a request with `, ` instead of discarding the duplicates. See `message.headers` for more information. **Default:** `false`.
    * `localAddress` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Local interface to bind for network connections.
    * `localPort` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Local port to connect from.
    * `lookup` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Custom lookup function. **Default:** `dns.lookup()`.
    * `maxHeaderSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Optionally overrides the value of `--max-http-header-size` (the maximum length of response headers in bytes) for responses received from the server. **Default:** 16384 (16 KiB).
    * `method` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A string specifying the HTTP request method. **Default:** `'GET'`.
    * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Request path. Should include query string if any. E.G. `'/index.html?page=12'`. An exception is thrown when the request path contains illegal characters. Currently, only spaces are rejected but that may change in the future. **Default:** `'/'`.
    * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Port of remote server. **Default:** `defaultPort` if set, else `80`.
    * `protocol` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Protocol to use. **Default:** `'http:'`.
    * `setDefaultHeaders` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type): Specifies whether or not to automatically add default headers such as `Connection`, `Content-Length`, `Transfer-Encoding`, and `Host`. If set to `false` then all necessary headers must be added manually. Defaults to `true`.
    * `setHost` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type): Specifies whether or not to automatically add the `Host` header. If provided, this overrides `setDefaultHeaders`. Defaults to `true`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal>: An AbortSignal that may be used to abort an ongoing request.
    * `socketPath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Unix domain socket. Cannot be used if one of `host` or `port` is specified, as those specify a TCP Socket.
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type): A number specifying the socket timeout in milliseconds. This will set the timeout before the socket is connected.
    * `uniqueHeaders` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) A list of request headers that should be sent only once. If the header's value is an array, the items will be joined using `; `.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <http.ClientRequest>

`options` in `socket.connect()` are also supported.

Node.js maintains several connections per server to make HTTP requests. This
function allows one to transparently issue requests.

`url` can be a string or a `URL` object. If `url` is a string, it is
automatically parsed with `new URL()`. If it is a `URL` object, it will be
automatically converted to an ordinary `options` object.

If both `url` and `options` are specified, the objects are merged, with the
`options` properties taking precedence.

The optional `callback` parameter will be added as a one-time listener for the
`'response'` event.

`http.request()` returns an instance of the `http.ClientRequest` class. The
`ClientRequest` instance is a writable stream. If one needs to upload a file
with a POST request, then write to the `ClientRequest` object.

    
    
    import http from 'node:http';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const postData = JSON.stringify({
      'msg': 'Hello World!',
    });
    
    const options = {
      hostname: 'www.google.com',
      port: 80,
      path: '/upload',
      method: 'POST',
      headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
        'Content-Length': Buffer.byteLength(postData),
      },
    };
    
    const req = http.request(options, (res) => {
      console.log(`STATUS: ${res.statusCode}`);
      console.log(`HEADERS: ${JSON.stringify(res.headers)}`);
      res.setEncoding('utf8');
      res.on('data', (chunk) => {
        console.log(`BODY: ${chunk}`);
      });
      res.on('end', () => {
        console.log('No more data in response.');
      });
    });
    
    req.on('error', (e) => {
      console.error(`problem with request: ${e.message}`);
    });
    
    // Write data to request body
    req.write(postData);
    req.end();const http = require('node:http');
    
    const postData = JSON.stringify({
      'msg': 'Hello World!',
    });
    
    const options = {
      hostname: 'www.google.com',
      port: 80,
      path: '/upload',
      method: 'POST',
      headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
        'Content-Length': Buffer.byteLength(postData),
      },
    };
    
    const req = http.request(options, (res) => {
      console.log(`STATUS: ${res.statusCode}`);
      console.log(`HEADERS: ${JSON.stringify(res.headers)}`);
      res.setEncoding('utf8');
      res.on('data', (chunk) => {
        console.log(`BODY: ${chunk}`);
      });
      res.on('end', () => {
        console.log('No more data in response.');
      });
    });
    
    req.on('error', (e) => {
      console.error(`problem with request: ${e.message}`);
    });
    
    // Write data to request body
    req.write(postData);
    req.end();copy

In the example `req.end()` was called. With `http.request()` one must always
call `req.end()` to signify the end of the request - even if there is no data
being written to the request body.

If any error is encountered during the request (be that with DNS resolution,
TCP level errors, or actual HTTP parse errors) an `'error'` event is emitted
on the returned request object. As with all `'error'` events, if no listeners
are registered the error will be thrown.

There are a few special headers that should be noted.

  * Sending a 'Connection: keep-alive' will notify Node.js that the connection to the server should be persisted until the next request.

  * Sending a 'Content-Length' header will disable the default chunked encoding.

  * Sending an 'Expect' header will immediately send the request headers. Usually, when sending 'Expect: 100-continue', both a timeout and a listener for the `'continue'` event should be set. See RFC 2616 Section 8.2.3 for more information.

  * Sending an Authorization header will override using the `auth` option to compute basic authentication.

Example using a `URL` as `options`:

    
    
    const options = new URL('http://abc:[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)');
    
    const req = http.request(options, (res) => {
      // ...
    }); copy

In a successful request, the following events will be emitted in the following
order:

  * `'socket'`
  * `'response'`
    * `'data'` any number of times, on the `res` object (`'data'` will not be emitted at all if the response body is empty, for instance, in most redirects)
    * `'end'` on the `res` object
  * `'close'`

In the case of a connection error, the following events will be emitted:

  * `'socket'`
  * `'error'`
  * `'close'`

In the case of a premature connection close before the response is received,
the following events will be emitted in the following order:

  * `'socket'`
  * `'error'` with an error with message `'Error: socket hang up'` and code `'ECONNRESET'`
  * `'close'`

In the case of a premature connection close after the response is received,
the following events will be emitted in the following order:

  * `'socket'`
  * `'response'`
    * `'data'` any number of times, on the `res` object
  * (connection closed here)
  * `'aborted'` on the `res` object
  * `'close'`
  * `'error'` on the `res` object with an error with message `'Error: aborted'` and code `'ECONNRESET'`
  * `'close'` on the `res` object

If `req.destroy()` is called before a socket is assigned, the following events
will be emitted in the following order:

  * (`req.destroy()` called here)
  * `'error'` with an error with message `'Error: socket hang up'` and code `'ECONNRESET'`, or the error with which `req.destroy()` was called
  * `'close'`

If `req.destroy()` is called before the connection succeeds, the following
events will be emitted in the following order:

  * `'socket'`
  * (`req.destroy()` called here)
  * `'error'` with an error with message `'Error: socket hang up'` and code `'ECONNRESET'`, or the error with which `req.destroy()` was called
  * `'close'`

If `req.destroy()` is called after the response is received, the following
events will be emitted in the following order:

  * `'socket'`
  * `'response'`
    * `'data'` any number of times, on the `res` object
  * (`req.destroy()` called here)
  * `'aborted'` on the `res` object
  * `'close'`
  * `'error'` on the `res` object with an error with message `'Error: aborted'` and code `'ECONNRESET'`, or the error with which `req.destroy()` was called
  * `'close'` on the `res` object

If `req.abort()` is called before a socket is assigned, the following events
will be emitted in the following order:

  * (`req.abort()` called here)
  * `'abort'`
  * `'close'`

If `req.abort()` is called before the connection succeeds, the following
events will be emitted in the following order:

  * `'socket'`
  * (`req.abort()` called here)
  * `'abort'`
  * `'error'` with an error with message `'Error: socket hang up'` and code `'ECONNRESET'`
  * `'close'`

If `req.abort()` is called after the response is received, the following
events will be emitted in the following order:

  * `'socket'`
  * `'response'`
    * `'data'` any number of times, on the `res` object
  * (`req.abort()` called here)
  * `'abort'`
  * `'aborted'` on the `res` object
  * `'error'` on the `res` object with an error with message `'Error: aborted'` and code `'ECONNRESET'`.
  * `'close'`
  * `'close'` on the `res` object

Setting the `timeout` option or using the `setTimeout()` function will not
abort the request or do anything besides add a `'timeout'` event.

Passing an `AbortSignal` and then calling `abort()` on the corresponding
`AbortController` will behave the same way as calling `.destroy()` on the
request. Specifically, the `'error'` event will be emitted with an error with
the message `'AbortError: The operation was aborted'`, the code `'ABORT_ERR'`
and the `cause`, if one was provided.

### `http.validateHeaderName(name[, label])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.5.0, v18.14.0 | The `label` parameter is added.  
v14.3.0 | Added in: v14.3.0  
  
  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `label` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Label for error message. **Default:** `'Header name'`.

Performs the low-level validations on the provided `name` that are done when
`res.setHeader(name, value)` is called.

Passing illegal value as `name` will result in a `TypeError` being thrown,
identified by `code: 'ERR_INVALID_HTTP_TOKEN'`.

It is not necessary to use this method before passing headers to an HTTP
request or response. The HTTP module will automatically validate such headers.

Example:

    
    
    import { validateHeaderName } from 'node:http';
    
    try {
      validateHeaderName('');
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(err instanceof TypeError); // --> true
      console.error(err.code); // --> 'ERR_INVALID_HTTP_TOKEN'
      console.error(err.message); // --> 'Header name must be a valid HTTP token [""]'
    }const { validateHeaderName } = require('node:http');
    
    try {
      validateHeaderName('');
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(err instanceof TypeError); // --> true
      console.error(err.code); // --> 'ERR_INVALID_HTTP_TOKEN'
      console.error(err.message); // --> 'Header name must be a valid HTTP token [""]'
    }copy

### `http.validateHeaderValue(name, value)`#

Added in: v14.3.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Performs the low-level validations on the provided `value` that are done when
`res.setHeader(name, value)` is called.

Passing illegal value as `value` will result in a `TypeError` being thrown.

  * Undefined value error is identified by `code: 'ERR_HTTP_INVALID_HEADER_VALUE'`.
  * Invalid value character error is identified by `code: 'ERR_INVALID_CHAR'`.

It is not necessary to use this method before passing headers to an HTTP
request or response. The HTTP module will automatically validate such headers.

Examples:

    
    
    import { validateHeaderValue } from 'node:http';
    
    try {
      validateHeaderValue('x-my-header', undefined);
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(err instanceof TypeError); // --> true
      console.error(err.code === 'ERR_HTTP_INVALID_HEADER_VALUE'); // --> true
      console.error(err.message); // --> 'Invalid value "undefined" for header "x-my-header"'
    }
    
    try {
      validateHeaderValue('x-my-header', 'oʊmɪɡə');
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(err instanceof TypeError); // --> true
      console.error(err.code === 'ERR_INVALID_CHAR'); // --> true
      console.error(err.message); // --> 'Invalid character in header content ["x-my-header"]'
    }const { validateHeaderValue } = require('node:http');
    
    try {
      validateHeaderValue('x-my-header', undefined);
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(err instanceof TypeError); // --> true
      console.error(err.code === 'ERR_HTTP_INVALID_HEADER_VALUE'); // --> true
      console.error(err.message); // --> 'Invalid value "undefined" for header "x-my-header"'
    }
    
    try {
      validateHeaderValue('x-my-header', 'oʊmɪɡə');
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(err instanceof TypeError); // --> true
      console.error(err.code === 'ERR_INVALID_CHAR'); // --> true
      console.error(err.message); // --> 'Invalid character in header content ["x-my-header"]'
    }copy

### `http.setMaxIdleHTTPParsers(max)`#

Added in: v18.8.0, v16.18.0

  * `max` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `1000`.

Set the maximum number of idle HTTP parsers.

### `WebSocket`#

Added in: v22.5.0

A browser-compatible implementation of
[`WebSocket`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSocket).

## HTTP/2#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | Requests with the `host` header (with or without `:authority`) can now be sent/received.  
v15.3.0, v14.17.0 | It is possible to abort a request with an AbortSignal.  
v10.10.0 | HTTP/2 is now Stable. Previously, it had been Experimental.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/http2.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/http2.js)

The `node:http2` module provides an implementation of the
[HTTP/2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7540) protocol. It can be accessed
using:

    
    
    const http2 = require('node:http2'); copy

### Determining if crypto support is unavailable#

It is possible for Node.js to be built without including support for the
`node:crypto` module. In such cases, attempting to `import` from `node:http2`
or calling `require('node:http2')` will result in an error being thrown.

When using CommonJS, the error thrown can be caught using try/catch:

    
    
    let http2;
    try {
      http2 = require('node:http2');
    } catch (err) {
      console.error('http2 support is disabled!');
    } copy

When using the lexical ESM `import` keyword, the error can only be caught if a
handler for `process.on('uncaughtException')` is registered _before_ any
attempt to load the module is made (using, for instance, a preload module).

When using ESM, if there is a chance that the code may be run on a build of
Node.js where crypto support is not enabled, consider using the
[`import()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import) function instead of the
lexical `import` keyword:

    
    
    let http2;
    try {
      http2 = await import('node:http2');
    } catch (err) {
      console.error('http2 support is disabled!');
    } copy

### Core API#

The Core API provides a low-level interface designed specifically around
support for HTTP/2 protocol features. It is specifically _not_ designed for
compatibility with the existing [HTTP/1](http.html) module API. However, the
Compatibility API is.

The `http2` Core API is much more symmetric between client and server than the
`http` API. For instance, most events, like `'error'`, `'connect'` and
`'stream'`, can be emitted either by client-side code or server-side code.

#### Server-side example#

The following illustrates a simple HTTP/2 server using the Core API. Since
there are no browsers known that support [unencrypted
HTTP/2](https://http2.github.io/faq/#does-http2-require-encryption), the use
of `http2.createSecureServer()` is necessary when communicating with browser
clients.

    
    
    import { createSecureServer } from 'node:http2';
    import { readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    const server = createSecureServer({
      key: readFileSync('localhost-privkey.pem'),
      cert: readFileSync('localhost-cert.pem'),
    });
    
    server.on('error', (err) => console.error(err));
    
    server.on('stream', (stream, headers) => {
      // stream is a Duplex
      stream.respond({
        'content-type': 'text/html; charset=utf-8',
        ':status': 200,
      });
      stream.end('<h1>Hello World</h1>');
    });
    
    server.listen(8443);const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    const server = http2.createSecureServer({
      key: fs.readFileSync('localhost-privkey.pem'),
      cert: fs.readFileSync('localhost-cert.pem'),
    });
    server.on('error', (err) => console.error(err));
    
    server.on('stream', (stream, headers) => {
      // stream is a Duplex
      stream.respond({
        'content-type': 'text/html; charset=utf-8',
        ':status': 200,
      });
      stream.end('<h1>Hello World</h1>');
    });
    
    server.listen(8443);copy

To generate the certificate and key for this example, run:

    
    
    openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -sha256 -subj '/CN=localhost' \
      -keyout localhost-privkey.pem -out localhost-cert.pem copy

#### Client-side example#

The following illustrates an HTTP/2 client:

    
    
    import { connect } from 'node:http2';
    import { readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    const client = connect('https://localhost:8443', {
      ca: readFileSync('localhost-cert.pem'),
    });
    client.on('error', (err) => console.error(err));
    
    const req = client.request({ ':path': '/' });
    
    req.on('response', (headers, flags) => {
      for (const name in headers) {
        console.log(`${name}: ${headers[name]}`);
      }
    });
    
    req.setEncoding('utf8');
    let data = '';
    req.on('data', (chunk) => { data += chunk; });
    req.on('end', () => {
      console.log(`\n${data}`);
      client.close();
    });
    req.end();const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    const client = http2.connect('https://localhost:8443', {
      ca: fs.readFileSync('localhost-cert.pem'),
    });
    client.on('error', (err) => console.error(err));
    
    const req = client.request({ ':path': '/' });
    
    req.on('response', (headers, flags) => {
      for (const name in headers) {
        console.log(`${name}: ${headers[name]}`);
      }
    });
    
    req.setEncoding('utf8');
    let data = '';
    req.on('data', (chunk) => { data += chunk; });
    req.on('end', () => {
      console.log(`\n${data}`);
      client.close();
    });
    req.end();copy

#### Class: `Http2Session`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * Extends: <EventEmitter>

Instances of the `http2.Http2Session` class represent an active communications
session between an HTTP/2 client and server. Instances of this class are _not_
intended to be constructed directly by user code.

Each `Http2Session` instance will exhibit slightly different behaviors
depending on whether it is operating as a server or a client. The
`http2session.type` property can be used to determine the mode in which an
`Http2Session` is operating. On the server side, user code should rarely have
occasion to work with the `Http2Session` object directly, with most actions
typically taken through interactions with either the `Http2Server` or
`Http2Stream` objects.

User code will not create `Http2Session` instances directly. Server-side
`Http2Session` instances are created by the `Http2Server` instance when a new
HTTP/2 connection is received. Client-side `Http2Session` instances are
created using the `http2.connect()` method.

##### `Http2Session` and sockets#

Every `Http2Session` instance is associated with exactly one `net.Socket` or
`tls.TLSSocket` when it is created. When either the `Socket` or the
`Http2Session` are destroyed, both will be destroyed.

Because of the specific serialization and processing requirements imposed by
the HTTP/2 protocol, it is not recommended for user code to read data from or
write data to a `Socket` instance bound to a `Http2Session`. Doing so can put
the HTTP/2 session into an indeterminate state causing the session and the
socket to become unusable.

Once a `Socket` has been bound to an `Http2Session`, user code should rely
solely on the API of the `Http2Session`.

##### Event: `'close'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

The `'close'` event is emitted once the `Http2Session` has been destroyed. Its
listener does not expect any arguments.

##### Event: `'connect'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `session` <Http2Session>
  * `socket` <net.Socket>

The `'connect'` event is emitted once the `Http2Session` has been successfully
connected to the remote peer and communication may begin.

User code will typically not listen for this event directly.

##### Event: `'error'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

The `'error'` event is emitted when an error occurs during the processing of
an `Http2Session`.

##### Event: `'frameError'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `type` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The frame type.
  * `code` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The error code.
  * `id` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The stream id (or `0` if the frame isn't associated with a stream).

The `'frameError'` event is emitted when an error occurs while attempting to
send a frame on the session. If the frame that could not be sent is associated
with a specific `Http2Stream`, an attempt to emit a `'frameError'` event on
the `Http2Stream` is made.

If the `'frameError'` event is associated with a stream, the stream will be
closed and destroyed immediately following the `'frameError'` event. If the
event is not associated with a stream, the `Http2Session` will be shut down
immediately following the `'frameError'` event.

##### Event: `'goaway'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `errorCode` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The HTTP/2 error code specified in the `GOAWAY` frame.
  * `lastStreamID` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The ID of the last stream the remote peer successfully processed (or `0` if no ID is specified).
  * `opaqueData` <Buffer> If additional opaque data was included in the `GOAWAY` frame, a `Buffer` instance will be passed containing that data.

The `'goaway'` event is emitted when a `GOAWAY` frame is received.

The `Http2Session` instance will be shut down automatically when the
`'goaway'` event is emitted.

##### Event: `'localSettings'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `settings` <HTTP/2 Settings Object> A copy of the `SETTINGS` frame received.

The `'localSettings'` event is emitted when an acknowledgment `SETTINGS` frame
has been received.

When using `http2session.settings()` to submit new settings, the modified
settings do not take effect until the `'localSettings'` event is emitted.

    
    
    session.settings({ enablePush: false });
    
    session.on('localSettings', (settings) => {
      /* Use the new settings */
    }); copy

##### Event: `'ping'`#

Added in: v10.12.0

  * `payload` <Buffer> The `PING` frame 8-byte payload

The `'ping'` event is emitted whenever a `PING` frame is received from the
connected peer.

##### Event: `'remoteSettings'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `settings` <HTTP/2 Settings Object> A copy of the `SETTINGS` frame received.

The `'remoteSettings'` event is emitted when a new `SETTINGS` frame is
received from the connected peer.

    
    
    session.on('remoteSettings', (settings) => {
      /* Use the new settings */
    }); copy

##### Event: `'stream'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `stream` <Http2Stream> A reference to the stream
  * `headers` <HTTP/2 Headers Object> An object describing the headers
  * `flags` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The associated numeric flags
  * `rawHeaders` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array containing the raw header names followed by their respective values.

The `'stream'` event is emitted when a new `Http2Stream` is created.

    
    
    session.on('stream', (stream, headers, flags) => {
      const method = headers[':method'];
      const path = headers[':path'];
      // ...
      stream.respond({
        ':status': 200,
        'content-type': 'text/plain; charset=utf-8',
      });
      stream.write('hello ');
      stream.end('world');
    }); copy

On the server side, user code will typically not listen for this event
directly, and would instead register a handler for the `'stream'` event
emitted by the `net.Server` or `tls.Server` instances returned by
`http2.createServer()` and `http2.createSecureServer()`, respectively, as in
the example below:

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http2';
    
    // Create an unencrypted HTTP/2 server
    const server = createServer();
    
    server.on('stream', (stream, headers) => {
      stream.respond({
        'content-type': 'text/html; charset=utf-8',
        ':status': 200,
      });
      stream.on('error', (error) => console.error(error));
      stream.end('<h1>Hello World</h1>');
    });
    
    server.listen(8000);const http2 = require('node:http2');
    
    // Create an unencrypted HTTP/2 server
    const server = http2.createServer();
    
    server.on('stream', (stream, headers) => {
      stream.respond({
        'content-type': 'text/html; charset=utf-8',
        ':status': 200,
      });
      stream.on('error', (error) => console.error(error));
      stream.end('<h1>Hello World</h1>');
    });
    
    server.listen(8000);copy

Even though HTTP/2 streams and network sockets are not in a 1:1
correspondence, a network error will destroy each individual stream and must
be handled on the stream level, as shown above.

##### Event: `'timeout'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

After the `http2session.setTimeout()` method is used to set the timeout period
for this `Http2Session`, the `'timeout'` event is emitted if there is no
activity on the `Http2Session` after the configured number of milliseconds.
Its listener does not expect any arguments.

    
    
    session.setTimeout(2000);
    session.on('timeout', () => { /* .. */ }); copy

##### `http2session.alpnProtocol`#

Added in: v9.4.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

Value will be `undefined` if the `Http2Session` is not yet connected to a
socket, `h2c` if the `Http2Session` is not connected to a `TLSSocket`, or will
return the value of the connected `TLSSocket`'s own `alpnProtocol` property.

##### `http2session.close([callback])`#

Added in: v9.4.0

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Gracefully closes the `Http2Session`, allowing any existing streams to
complete on their own and preventing new `Http2Stream` instances from being
created. Once closed, `http2session.destroy()` _might_ be called if there are
no open `Http2Stream` instances.

If specified, the `callback` function is registered as a handler for the
`'close'` event.

##### `http2session.closed`#

Added in: v9.4.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Will be `true` if this `Http2Session` instance has been closed, otherwise
`false`.

##### `http2session.connecting`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Will be `true` if this `Http2Session` instance is still connecting, will be
set to `false` before emitting `connect` event and/or calling the
`http2.connect` callback.

##### `http2session.destroy([error][, code])`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) An `Error` object if the `Http2Session` is being destroyed due to an error.
  * `code` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The HTTP/2 error code to send in the final `GOAWAY` frame. If unspecified, and `error` is not undefined, the default is `INTERNAL_ERROR`, otherwise defaults to `NO_ERROR`.

Immediately terminates the `Http2Session` and the associated `net.Socket` or
`tls.TLSSocket`.

Once destroyed, the `Http2Session` will emit the `'close'` event. If `error`
is not undefined, an `'error'` event will be emitted immediately before the
`'close'` event.

If there are any remaining open `Http2Streams` associated with the
`Http2Session`, those will also be destroyed.

##### `http2session.destroyed`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Will be `true` if this `Http2Session` instance has been destroyed and must no
longer be used, otherwise `false`.

##### `http2session.encrypted`#

Added in: v9.4.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

Value is `undefined` if the `Http2Session` session socket has not yet been
connected, `true` if the `Http2Session` is connected with a `TLSSocket`, and
`false` if the `Http2Session` is connected to any other kind of socket or
stream.

##### `http2session.goaway([code[, lastStreamID[, opaqueData]]])`#

Added in: v9.4.0

  * `code` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) An HTTP/2 error code
  * `lastStreamID` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The numeric ID of the last processed `Http2Stream`
  * `opaqueData` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) A `TypedArray` or `DataView` instance containing additional data to be carried within the `GOAWAY` frame.

Transmits a `GOAWAY` frame to the connected peer _without_ shutting down the
`Http2Session`.

##### `http2session.localSettings`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * <HTTP/2 Settings Object>

A prototype-less object describing the current local settings of this
`Http2Session`. The local settings are local to _this_ `Http2Session`
instance.

##### `http2session.originSet`#

Added in: v9.4.0

  * [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

If the `Http2Session` is connected to a `TLSSocket`, the `originSet` property
will return an `Array` of origins for which the `Http2Session` may be
considered authoritative.

The `originSet` property is only available when using a secure TLS connection.

##### `http2session.pendingSettingsAck`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Indicates whether the `Http2Session` is currently waiting for acknowledgment
of a sent `SETTINGS` frame. Will be `true` after calling the
`http2session.settings()` method. Will be `false` once all sent `SETTINGS`
frames have been acknowledged.

##### `http2session.ping([payload, ]callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v8.9.3 | Added in: v8.9.3  
  
  * `payload` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) Optional ping payload.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Sends a `PING` frame to the connected HTTP/2 peer. A `callback` function must
be provided. The method will return `true` if the `PING` was sent, `false`
otherwise.

The maximum number of outstanding (unacknowledged) pings is determined by the
`maxOutstandingPings` configuration option. The default maximum is 10.

If provided, the `payload` must be a `Buffer`, `TypedArray`, or `DataView`
containing 8 bytes of data that will be transmitted with the `PING` and
returned with the ping acknowledgment.

The callback will be invoked with three arguments: an error argument that will
be `null` if the `PING` was successfully acknowledged, a `duration` argument
that reports the number of milliseconds elapsed since the ping was sent and
the acknowledgment was received, and a `Buffer` containing the 8-byte `PING`
payload.

    
    
    session.ping(Buffer.from('abcdefgh'), (err, duration, payload) => {
      if (!err) {
        console.log(`Ping acknowledged in ${duration} milliseconds`);
        console.log(`With payload '${payload.toString()}'`);
      }
    }); copy

If the `payload` argument is not specified, the default payload will be the
64-bit timestamp (little endian) marking the start of the `PING` duration.

##### `http2session.ref()`#

Added in: v9.4.0

Calls `ref()` on this `Http2Session` instance's underlying `net.Socket`.

##### `http2session.remoteSettings`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * <HTTP/2 Settings Object>

A prototype-less object describing the current remote settings of this
`Http2Session`. The remote settings are set by the _connected_ HTTP/2 peer.

##### `http2session.setLocalWindowSize(windowSize)`#

Added in: v15.3.0, v14.18.0

  * `windowSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Sets the local endpoint's window size. The `windowSize` is the total window
size to set, not the delta.

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http2';
    
    const server = createServer();
    const expectedWindowSize = 2 ** 20;
    server.on('session', (session) => {
    
      // Set local window size to be 2 ** 20
      session.setLocalWindowSize(expectedWindowSize);
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    
    const server = http2.createServer();
    const expectedWindowSize = 2 ** 20;
    server.on('session', (session) => {
    
      // Set local window size to be 2 ** 20
      session.setLocalWindowSize(expectedWindowSize);
    });copy

For http2 clients the proper event is either `'connect'` or
`'remoteSettings'`.

##### `http2session.setTimeout(msecs, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * `msecs` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Used to set a callback function that is called when there is no activity on
the `Http2Session` after `msecs` milliseconds. The given `callback` is
registered as a listener on the `'timeout'` event.

##### `http2session.socket`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * <net.Socket> | <tls.TLSSocket>

Returns a `Proxy` object that acts as a `net.Socket` (or `tls.TLSSocket`) but
limits available methods to ones safe to use with HTTP/2.

`destroy`, `emit`, `end`, `pause`, `read`, `resume`, and `write` will throw an
error with code `ERR_HTTP2_NO_SOCKET_MANIPULATION`. See `Http2Session` and
Sockets for more information.

`setTimeout` method will be called on this `Http2Session`.

All other interactions will be routed directly to the socket.

##### `http2session.state`#

Added in: v8.4.0

Provides miscellaneous information about the current state of the
`Http2Session`.

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `effectiveLocalWindowSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The current local (receive) flow control window size for the `Http2Session`.
    * `effectiveRecvDataLength` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The current number of bytes that have been received since the last flow control `WINDOW_UPDATE`.
    * `nextStreamID` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The numeric identifier to be used the next time a new `Http2Stream` is created by this `Http2Session`.
    * `localWindowSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes that the remote peer can send without receiving a `WINDOW_UPDATE`.
    * `lastProcStreamID` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The numeric id of the `Http2Stream` for which a `HEADERS` or `DATA` frame was most recently received.
    * `remoteWindowSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes that this `Http2Session` may send without receiving a `WINDOW_UPDATE`.
    * `outboundQueueSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of frames currently within the outbound queue for this `Http2Session`.
    * `deflateDynamicTableSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The current size in bytes of the outbound header compression state table.
    * `inflateDynamicTableSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The current size in bytes of the inbound header compression state table.

An object describing the current status of this `Http2Session`.

##### `http2session.settings([settings][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * `settings` <HTTP/2 Settings Object>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Callback that is called once the session is connected or right away if the session is already connected. 
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type)
    * `settings` <HTTP/2 Settings Object> The updated `settings` object.
    * `duration` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Updates the current local settings for this `Http2Session` and sends a new
`SETTINGS` frame to the connected HTTP/2 peer.

Once called, the `http2session.pendingSettingsAck` property will be `true`
while the session is waiting for the remote peer to acknowledge the new
settings.

The new settings will not become effective until the `SETTINGS` acknowledgment
is received and the `'localSettings'` event is emitted. It is possible to send
multiple `SETTINGS` frames while acknowledgment is still pending.

##### `http2session.type`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `http2session.type` will be equal to
`http2.constants.NGHTTP2_SESSION_SERVER` if this `Http2Session` instance is a
server, and `http2.constants.NGHTTP2_SESSION_CLIENT` if the instance is a
client.

##### `http2session.unref()`#

Added in: v9.4.0

Calls `unref()` on this `Http2Session` instance's underlying `net.Socket`.

#### Class: `ServerHttp2Session`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * Extends: <Http2Session>

##### `serverhttp2session.altsvc(alt, originOrStream)`#

Added in: v9.4.0

  * `alt` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A description of the alternative service configuration as defined by [RFC 7838](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7838).
  * `originOrStream` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Either a URL string specifying the origin (or an `Object` with an `origin` property) or the numeric identifier of an active `Http2Stream` as given by the `http2stream.id` property.

Submits an `ALTSVC` frame (as defined by [RFC
7838](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7838)) to the connected client.

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http2';
    
    const server = createServer();
    server.on('session', (session) => {
      // Set altsvc for origin https://example.org:80
      session.altsvc('h2=":8000"', 'https://example.org:80');
    });
    
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      // Set altsvc for a specific stream
      stream.session.altsvc('h2=":8000"', stream.id);
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    
    const server = http2.createServer();
    server.on('session', (session) => {
      // Set altsvc for origin https://example.org:80
      session.altsvc('h2=":8000"', 'https://example.org:80');
    });
    
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      // Set altsvc for a specific stream
      stream.session.altsvc('h2=":8000"', stream.id);
    });copy

Sending an `ALTSVC` frame with a specific stream ID indicates that the
alternate service is associated with the origin of the given `Http2Stream`.

The `alt` and origin string _must_ contain only ASCII bytes and are strictly
interpreted as a sequence of ASCII bytes. The special value `'clear'` may be
passed to clear any previously set alternative service for a given domain.

When a string is passed for the `originOrStream` argument, it will be parsed
as a URL and the origin will be derived. For instance, the origin for the HTTP
URL `'https://example.org/foo/bar'` is the ASCII string
`'https://example.org'`. An error will be thrown if either the given string
cannot be parsed as a URL or if a valid origin cannot be derived.

A `URL` object, or any object with an `origin` property, may be passed as
`originOrStream`, in which case the value of the `origin` property will be
used. The value of the `origin` property _must_ be a properly serialized ASCII
origin.

##### Specifying alternative services#

The format of the `alt` parameter is strictly defined by [RFC
7838](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7838) as an ASCII string containing a
comma-delimited list of "alternative" protocols associated with a specific
host and port.

For example, the value `'h2="example.org:81"'` indicates that the HTTP/2
protocol is available on the host `'example.org'` on TCP/IP port 81. The host
and port _must_ be contained within the quote (`"`) characters.

Multiple alternatives may be specified, for instance: `'h2="example.org:81",
h2=":82"'`.

The protocol identifier (`'h2'` in the examples) may be any valid [ALPN
Protocol ID](https://www.iana.org/assignments/tls-extensiontype-values/tls-
extensiontype-values.xhtml#alpn-protocol-ids).

The syntax of these values is not validated by the Node.js implementation and
are passed through as provided by the user or received from the peer.

##### `serverhttp2session.origin(...origins)`#

Added in: v10.12.0

  * `origins` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) One or more URL Strings passed as separate arguments.

Submits an `ORIGIN` frame (as defined by [RFC
8336](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8336)) to the connected client to
advertise the set of origins for which the server is capable of providing
authoritative responses.

    
    
    import { createSecureServer } from 'node:http2';
    const options = getSecureOptionsSomehow();
    const server = createSecureServer(options);
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      stream.respond();
      stream.end('ok');
    });
    server.on('session', (session) => {
      session.origin('https://example.com', 'https://example.org');
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const options = getSecureOptionsSomehow();
    const server = http2.createSecureServer(options);
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      stream.respond();
      stream.end('ok');
    });
    server.on('session', (session) => {
      session.origin('https://example.com', 'https://example.org');
    });copy

When a string is passed as an `origin`, it will be parsed as a URL and the
origin will be derived. For instance, the origin for the HTTP URL
`'https://example.org/foo/bar'` is the ASCII string `'https://example.org'`.
An error will be thrown if either the given string cannot be parsed as a URL
or if a valid origin cannot be derived.

A `URL` object, or any object with an `origin` property, may be passed as an
`origin`, in which case the value of the `origin` property will be used. The
value of the `origin` property _must_ be a properly serialized ASCII origin.

Alternatively, the `origins` option may be used when creating a new HTTP/2
server using the `http2.createSecureServer()` method:

    
    
    import { createSecureServer } from 'node:http2';
    const options = getSecureOptionsSomehow();
    options.origins = ['https://example.com', 'https://example.org'];
    const server = createSecureServer(options);
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      stream.respond();
      stream.end('ok');
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const options = getSecureOptionsSomehow();
    options.origins = ['https://example.com', 'https://example.org'];
    const server = http2.createSecureServer(options);
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      stream.respond();
      stream.end('ok');
    });copy

#### Class: `ClientHttp2Session`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * Extends: <Http2Session>

##### Event: `'altsvc'`#

Added in: v9.4.0

  * `alt` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `origin` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `streamId` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `'altsvc'` event is emitted whenever an `ALTSVC` frame is received by the
client. The event is emitted with the `ALTSVC` value, origin, and stream ID.
If no `origin` is provided in the `ALTSVC` frame, `origin` will be an empty
string.

    
    
    import { connect } from 'node:http2';
    const client = connect('https://example.org');
    
    client.on('altsvc', (alt, origin, streamId) => {
      console.log(alt);
      console.log(origin);
      console.log(streamId);
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const client = http2.connect('https://example.org');
    
    client.on('altsvc', (alt, origin, streamId) => {
      console.log(alt);
      console.log(origin);
      console.log(streamId);
    });copy

##### Event: `'origin'`#

Added in: v10.12.0

  * `origins` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `'origin'` event is emitted whenever an `ORIGIN` frame is received by the
client. The event is emitted with an array of `origin` strings. The
`http2session.originSet` will be updated to include the received origins.

    
    
    import { connect } from 'node:http2';
    const client = connect('https://example.org');
    
    client.on('origin', (origins) => {
      for (let n = 0; n < origins.length; n++)
        console.log(origins[n]);
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const client = http2.connect('https://example.org');
    
    client.on('origin', (origins) => {
      for (let n = 0; n < origins.length; n++)
        console.log(origins[n]);
    });copy

The `'origin'` event is only emitted when using a secure TLS connection.

##### `clienthttp2session.request(headers[, options])`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `headers` <HTTP/2 Headers Object>

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

    * `endStream` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the `Http2Stream` _writable_ side should be closed initially, such as when sending a `GET` request that should not expect a payload body.
    * `exclusive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true` and `parent` identifies a parent Stream, the created stream is made the sole direct dependency of the parent, with all other existing dependents made a dependent of the newly created stream. **Default:** `false`.
    * `parent` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the numeric identifier of a stream the newly created stream is dependent on.
    * `weight` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the relative dependency of a stream in relation to other streams with the same `parent`. The value is a number between `1` and `256` (inclusive).
    * `waitForTrailers` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, the `Http2Stream` will emit the `'wantTrailers'` event after the final `DATA` frame has been sent.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> An AbortSignal that may be used to abort an ongoing request.
  * Returns: <ClientHttp2Stream>

For HTTP/2 Client `Http2Session` instances only, the `http2session.request()`
creates and returns an `Http2Stream` instance that can be used to send an
HTTP/2 request to the connected server.

When a `ClientHttp2Session` is first created, the socket may not yet be
connected. if `clienthttp2session.request()` is called during this time, the
actual request will be deferred until the socket is ready to go. If the
`session` is closed before the actual request be executed, an
`ERR_HTTP2_GOAWAY_SESSION` is thrown.

This method is only available if `http2session.type` is equal to
`http2.constants.NGHTTP2_SESSION_CLIENT`.

    
    
    import { connect, constants } from 'node:http2';
    const clientSession = connect('https://localhost:1234');
    const {
      HTTP2_HEADER_PATH,
      HTTP2_HEADER_STATUS,
    } = constants;
    
    const req = clientSession.request({ [HTTP2_HEADER_PATH]: '/' });
    req.on('response', (headers) => {
      console.log(headers[HTTP2_HEADER_STATUS]);
      req.on('data', (chunk) => { /* .. */ });
      req.on('end', () => { /* .. */ });
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const clientSession = http2.connect('https://localhost:1234');
    const {
      HTTP2_HEADER_PATH,
      HTTP2_HEADER_STATUS,
    } = http2.constants;
    
    const req = clientSession.request({ [HTTP2_HEADER_PATH]: '/' });
    req.on('response', (headers) => {
      console.log(headers[HTTP2_HEADER_STATUS]);
      req.on('data', (chunk) => { /* .. */ });
      req.on('end', () => { /* .. */ });
    });copy

When the `options.waitForTrailers` option is set, the `'wantTrailers'` event
is emitted immediately after queuing the last chunk of payload data to be
sent. The `http2stream.sendTrailers()` method can then be called to send
trailing headers to the peer.

When `options.waitForTrailers` is set, the `Http2Stream` will not
automatically close when the final `DATA` frame is transmitted. User code must
call either `http2stream.sendTrailers()` or `http2stream.close()` to close the
`Http2Stream`.

When `options.signal` is set with an `AbortSignal` and then `abort` on the
corresponding `AbortController` is called, the request will emit an `'error'`
event with an `AbortError` error.

The `:method` and `:path` pseudo-headers are not specified within `headers`,
they respectively default to:

  * `:method` = `'GET'`
  * `:path` = `/`

#### Class: `Http2Stream`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * Extends: <stream.Duplex>

Each instance of the `Http2Stream` class represents a bidirectional HTTP/2
communications stream over an `Http2Session` instance. Any single
`Http2Session` may have up to 231-1 `Http2Stream` instances over its lifetime.

User code will not construct `Http2Stream` instances directly. Rather, these
are created, managed, and provided to user code through the `Http2Session`
instance. On the server, `Http2Stream` instances are created either in
response to an incoming HTTP request (and handed off to user code via the
`'stream'` event), or in response to a call to the `http2stream.pushStream()`
method. On the client, `Http2Stream` instances are created and returned when
either the `http2session.request()` method is called, or in response to an
incoming `'push'` event.

The `Http2Stream` class is a base for the `ServerHttp2Stream` and
`ClientHttp2Stream` classes, each of which is used specifically by either the
Server or Client side, respectively.

All `Http2Stream` instances are `Duplex` streams. The `Writable` side of the
`Duplex` is used to send data to the connected peer, while the `Readable` side
is used to receive data sent by the connected peer.

The default text character encoding for an `Http2Stream` is UTF-8. When using
an `Http2Stream` to send text, use the `'content-type'` header to set the
character encoding.

    
    
    stream.respond({
      'content-type': 'text/html; charset=utf-8',
      ':status': 200,
    }); copy

##### `Http2Stream` Lifecycle#

###### Creation#

On the server side, instances of `ServerHttp2Stream` are created either when:

  * A new HTTP/2 `HEADERS` frame with a previously unused stream ID is received;
  * The `http2stream.pushStream()` method is called.

On the client side, instances of `ClientHttp2Stream` are created when the
`http2session.request()` method is called.

On the client, the `Http2Stream` instance returned by `http2session.request()`
may not be immediately ready for use if the parent `Http2Session` has not yet
been fully established. In such cases, operations called on the `Http2Stream`
will be buffered until the `'ready'` event is emitted. User code should
rarely, if ever, need to handle the `'ready'` event directly. The ready status
of an `Http2Stream` can be determined by checking the value of
`http2stream.id`. If the value is `undefined`, the stream is not yet ready for
use.

###### Destruction#

All `Http2Stream` instances are destroyed either when:

  * An `RST_STREAM` frame for the stream is received by the connected peer, and (for client streams only) pending data has been read.
  * The `http2stream.close()` method is called, and (for client streams only) pending data has been read.
  * The `http2stream.destroy()` or `http2session.destroy()` methods are called.

When an `Http2Stream` instance is destroyed, an attempt will be made to send
an `RST_STREAM` frame to the connected peer.

When the `Http2Stream` instance is destroyed, the `'close'` event will be
emitted. Because `Http2Stream` is an instance of `stream.Duplex`, the `'end'`
event will also be emitted if the stream data is currently flowing. The
`'error'` event may also be emitted if `http2stream.destroy()` was called with
an `Error` passed as the first argument.

After the `Http2Stream` has been destroyed, the `http2stream.destroyed`
property will be `true` and the `http2stream.rstCode` property will specify
the `RST_STREAM` error code. The `Http2Stream` instance is no longer usable
once destroyed.

##### Event: `'aborted'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

The `'aborted'` event is emitted whenever a `Http2Stream` instance is
abnormally aborted in mid-communication. Its listener does not expect any
arguments.

The `'aborted'` event will only be emitted if the `Http2Stream` writable side
has not been ended.

##### Event: `'close'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

The `'close'` event is emitted when the `Http2Stream` is destroyed. Once this
event is emitted, the `Http2Stream` instance is no longer usable.

The HTTP/2 error code used when closing the stream can be retrieved using the
`http2stream.rstCode` property. If the code is any value other than
`NGHTTP2_NO_ERROR` (`0`), an `'error'` event will have also been emitted.

##### Event: `'error'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

The `'error'` event is emitted when an error occurs during the processing of
an `Http2Stream`.

##### Event: `'frameError'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `type` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The frame type.
  * `code` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The error code.
  * `id` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The stream id (or `0` if the frame isn't associated with a stream).

The `'frameError'` event is emitted when an error occurs while attempting to
send a frame. When invoked, the handler function will receive an integer
argument identifying the frame type, and an integer argument identifying the
error code. The `Http2Stream` instance will be destroyed immediately after the
`'frameError'` event is emitted.

##### Event: `'ready'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

The `'ready'` event is emitted when the `Http2Stream` has been opened, has
been assigned an `id`, and can be used. The listener does not expect any
arguments.

##### Event: `'timeout'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

The `'timeout'` event is emitted after no activity is received for this
`Http2Stream` within the number of milliseconds set using
`http2stream.setTimeout()`. Its listener does not expect any arguments.

##### Event: `'trailers'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `headers` <HTTP/2 Headers Object> An object describing the headers
  * `flags` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The associated numeric flags

The `'trailers'` event is emitted when a block of headers associated with
trailing header fields is received. The listener callback is passed the HTTP/2
Headers Object and flags associated with the headers.

This event might not be emitted if `http2stream.end()` is called before
trailers are received and the incoming data is not being read or listened for.

    
    
    stream.on('trailers', (headers, flags) => {
      console.log(headers);
    }); copy

##### Event: `'wantTrailers'`#

Added in: v10.0.0

The `'wantTrailers'` event is emitted when the `Http2Stream` has queued the
final `DATA` frame to be sent on a frame and the `Http2Stream` is ready to
send trailing headers. When initiating a request or response, the
`waitForTrailers` option must be set for this event to be emitted.

##### `http2stream.aborted`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Set to `true` if the `Http2Stream` instance was aborted abnormally. When set,
the `'aborted'` event will have been emitted.

##### `http2stream.bufferSize`#

Added in: v11.2.0, v10.16.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

This property shows the number of characters currently buffered to be written.
See `net.Socket.bufferSize` for details.

##### `http2stream.close(code[, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * `code` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Unsigned 32-bit integer identifying the error code. **Default:** `http2.constants.NGHTTP2_NO_ERROR` (`0x00`).
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) An optional function registered to listen for the `'close'` event.

Closes the `Http2Stream` instance by sending an `RST_STREAM` frame to the
connected HTTP/2 peer.

##### `http2stream.closed`#

Added in: v9.4.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Set to `true` if the `Http2Stream` instance has been closed.

##### `http2stream.destroyed`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Set to `true` if the `Http2Stream` instance has been destroyed and is no
longer usable.

##### `http2stream.endAfterHeaders`#

Added in: v10.11.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Set to `true` if the `END_STREAM` flag was set in the request or response
HEADERS frame received, indicating that no additional data should be received
and the readable side of the `Http2Stream` will be closed.

##### `http2stream.id`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

The numeric stream identifier of this `Http2Stream` instance. Set to
`undefined` if the stream identifier has not yet been assigned.

##### `http2stream.pending`#

Added in: v9.4.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Set to `true` if the `Http2Stream` instance has not yet been assigned a
numeric stream identifier.

##### `http2stream.priority(options)`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `exclusive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true` and `parent` identifies a parent Stream, this stream is made the sole direct dependency of the parent, with all other existing dependents made a dependent of this stream. **Default:** `false`.
    * `parent` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the numeric identifier of a stream this stream is dependent on.
    * `weight` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the relative dependency of a stream in relation to other streams with the same `parent`. The value is a number between `1` and `256` (inclusive).
    * `silent` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, changes the priority locally without sending a `PRIORITY` frame to the connected peer.

Updates the priority for this `Http2Stream` instance.

##### `http2stream.rstCode`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Set to the `RST_STREAM` error code reported when the `Http2Stream` is
destroyed after either receiving an `RST_STREAM` frame from the connected
peer, calling `http2stream.close()`, or `http2stream.destroy()`. Will be
`undefined` if the `Http2Stream` has not been closed.

##### `http2stream.sentHeaders`#

Added in: v9.5.0

  * <HTTP/2 Headers Object>

An object containing the outbound headers sent for this `Http2Stream`.

##### `http2stream.sentInfoHeaders`#

Added in: v9.5.0

  * <HTTP/2 Headers Object[]>

An array of objects containing the outbound informational (additional) headers
sent for this `Http2Stream`.

##### `http2stream.sentTrailers`#

Added in: v9.5.0

  * <HTTP/2 Headers Object>

An object containing the outbound trailers sent for this `HttpStream`.

##### `http2stream.session`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * <Http2Session>

A reference to the `Http2Session` instance that owns this `Http2Stream`. The
value will be `undefined` after the `Http2Stream` instance is destroyed.

##### `http2stream.setTimeout(msecs, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * `msecs` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

    
    
    import { connect, constants } from 'node:http2';
    const client = connect('http://example.org:8000');
    const { NGHTTP2_CANCEL } = constants;
    const req = client.request({ ':path': '/' });
    
    // Cancel the stream if there's no activity after 5 seconds
    req.setTimeout(5000, () => req.close(NGHTTP2_CANCEL));const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const client = http2.connect('http://example.org:8000');
    const { NGHTTP2_CANCEL } = http2.constants;
    const req = client.request({ ':path': '/' });
    
    // Cancel the stream if there's no activity after 5 seconds
    req.setTimeout(5000, () => req.close(NGHTTP2_CANCEL));copy

##### `http2stream.state`#

Added in: v8.4.0

Provides miscellaneous information about the current state of the
`Http2Stream`.

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `localWindowSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes the connected peer may send for this `Http2Stream` without receiving a `WINDOW_UPDATE`.
    * `state` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A flag indicating the low-level current state of the `Http2Stream` as determined by `nghttp2`.
    * `localClose` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `1` if this `Http2Stream` has been closed locally.
    * `remoteClose` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) `1` if this `Http2Stream` has been closed remotely.
    * `sumDependencyWeight` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The sum weight of all `Http2Stream` instances that depend on this `Http2Stream` as specified using `PRIORITY` frames.
    * `weight` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The priority weight of this `Http2Stream`.

A current state of this `Http2Stream`.

##### `http2stream.sendTrailers(headers)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `headers` <HTTP/2 Headers Object>

Sends a trailing `HEADERS` frame to the connected HTTP/2 peer. This method
will cause the `Http2Stream` to be immediately closed and must only be called
after the `'wantTrailers'` event has been emitted. When sending a request or
sending a response, the `options.waitForTrailers` option must be set in order
to keep the `Http2Stream` open after the final `DATA` frame so that trailers
can be sent.

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http2';
    const server = createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      stream.respond(undefined, { waitForTrailers: true });
      stream.on('wantTrailers', () => {
        stream.sendTrailers({ xyz: 'abc' });
      });
      stream.end('Hello World');
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const server = http2.createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      stream.respond(undefined, { waitForTrailers: true });
      stream.on('wantTrailers', () => {
        stream.sendTrailers({ xyz: 'abc' });
      });
      stream.end('Hello World');
    });copy

The HTTP/1 specification forbids trailers from containing HTTP/2 pseudo-header
fields (e.g. `':method'`, `':path'`, etc).

#### Class: `ClientHttp2Stream`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * Extends <Http2Stream>

The `ClientHttp2Stream` class is an extension of `Http2Stream` that is used
exclusively on HTTP/2 Clients. `Http2Stream` instances on the client provide
events such as `'response'` and `'push'` that are only relevant on the client.

##### Event: `'continue'`#

Added in: v8.5.0

Emitted when the server sends a `100 Continue` status, usually because the
request contained `Expect: 100-continue`. This is an instruction that the
client should send the request body.

##### Event: `'headers'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `headers` <HTTP/2 Headers Object>
  * `flags` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `'headers'` event is emitted when an additional block of headers is
received for a stream, such as when a block of `1xx` informational headers is
received. The listener callback is passed the HTTP/2 Headers Object and flags
associated with the headers.

    
    
    stream.on('headers', (headers, flags) => {
      console.log(headers);
    }); copy

##### Event: `'push'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `headers` <HTTP/2 Headers Object>
  * `flags` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `'push'` event is emitted when response headers for a Server Push stream
are received. The listener callback is passed the HTTP/2 Headers Object and
flags associated with the headers.

    
    
    stream.on('push', (headers, flags) => {
      console.log(headers);
    }); copy

##### Event: `'response'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `headers` <HTTP/2 Headers Object>
  * `flags` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `'response'` event is emitted when a response `HEADERS` frame has been
received for this stream from the connected HTTP/2 server. The listener is
invoked with two arguments: an `Object` containing the received HTTP/2 Headers
Object, and flags associated with the headers.

    
    
    import { connect } from 'node:http2';
    const client = connect('https://localhost');
    const req = client.request({ ':path': '/' });
    req.on('response', (headers, flags) => {
      console.log(headers[':status']);
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const client = http2.connect('https://localhost');
    const req = client.request({ ':path': '/' });
    req.on('response', (headers, flags) => {
      console.log(headers[':status']);
    });copy

#### Class: `ServerHttp2Stream`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * Extends: <Http2Stream>

The `ServerHttp2Stream` class is an extension of `Http2Stream` that is used
exclusively on HTTP/2 Servers. `Http2Stream` instances on the server provide
additional methods such as `http2stream.pushStream()` and
`http2stream.respond()` that are only relevant on the server.

##### `http2stream.additionalHeaders(headers)`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `headers` <HTTP/2 Headers Object>

Sends an additional informational `HEADERS` frame to the connected HTTP/2
peer.

##### `http2stream.headersSent`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

True if headers were sent, false otherwise (read-only).

##### `http2stream.pushAllowed`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Read-only property mapped to the `SETTINGS_ENABLE_PUSH` flag of the remote
client's most recent `SETTINGS` frame. Will be `true` if the remote peer
accepts push streams, `false` otherwise. Settings are the same for every
`Http2Stream` in the same `Http2Session`.

##### `http2stream.pushStream(headers[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * `headers` <HTTP/2 Headers Object>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `exclusive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true` and `parent` identifies a parent Stream, the created stream is made the sole direct dependency of the parent, with all other existing dependents made a dependent of the newly created stream. **Default:** `false`.
    * `parent` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the numeric identifier of a stream the newly created stream is dependent on.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Callback that is called once the push stream has been initiated. 
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `pushStream` <ServerHttp2Stream> The returned `pushStream` object.
    * `headers` <HTTP/2 Headers Object> Headers object the `pushStream` was initiated with.

Initiates a push stream. The callback is invoked with the new `Http2Stream`
instance created for the push stream passed as the second argument, or an
`Error` passed as the first argument.

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http2';
    const server = createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      stream.respond({ ':status': 200 });
      stream.pushStream({ ':path': '/' }, (err, pushStream, headers) => {
        if (err) throw err;
        pushStream.respond({ ':status': 200 });
        pushStream.end('some pushed data');
      });
      stream.end('some data');
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const server = http2.createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      stream.respond({ ':status': 200 });
      stream.pushStream({ ':path': '/' }, (err, pushStream, headers) => {
        if (err) throw err;
        pushStream.respond({ ':status': 200 });
        pushStream.end('some pushed data');
      });
      stream.end('some data');
    });copy

Setting the weight of a push stream is not allowed in the `HEADERS` frame.
Pass a `weight` value to `http2stream.priority` with the `silent` option set
to `true` to enable server-side bandwidth balancing between concurrent
streams.

Calling `http2stream.pushStream()` from within a pushed stream is not
permitted and will throw an error.

##### `http2stream.respond([headers[, options]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.5.0, v12.19.0 | Allow explicitly setting date headers.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * `headers` <HTTP/2 Headers Object>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `endStream` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Set to `true` to indicate that the response will not include payload data.
    * `waitForTrailers` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, the `Http2Stream` will emit the `'wantTrailers'` event after the final `DATA` frame has been sent.

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http2';
    const server = createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      stream.respond({ ':status': 200 });
      stream.end('some data');
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const server = http2.createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      stream.respond({ ':status': 200 });
      stream.end('some data');
    });copy

Initiates a response. When the `options.waitForTrailers` option is set, the
`'wantTrailers'` event will be emitted immediately after queuing the last
chunk of payload data to be sent. The `http2stream.sendTrailers()` method can
then be used to sent trailing header fields to the peer.

When `options.waitForTrailers` is set, the `Http2Stream` will not
automatically close when the final `DATA` frame is transmitted. User code must
call either `http2stream.sendTrailers()` or `http2stream.close()` to close the
`Http2Stream`.

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http2';
    const server = createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      stream.respond({ ':status': 200 }, { waitForTrailers: true });
      stream.on('wantTrailers', () => {
        stream.sendTrailers({ ABC: 'some value to send' });
      });
      stream.end('some data');
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const server = http2.createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      stream.respond({ ':status': 200 }, { waitForTrailers: true });
      stream.on('wantTrailers', () => {
        stream.sendTrailers({ ABC: 'some value to send' });
      });
      stream.end('some data');
    });copy

##### `http2stream.respondWithFD(fd[, headers[, options]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.5.0, v12.19.0 | Allow explicitly setting date headers.  
v12.12.0 | The `fd` option may now be a `FileHandle`.  
v10.0.0 | Any readable file descriptor, not necessarily for a regular file, is supported now.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * `fd` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | <FileHandle> A readable file descriptor.
  * `headers` <HTTP/2 Headers Object>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `statCheck` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `waitForTrailers` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, the `Http2Stream` will emit the `'wantTrailers'` event after the final `DATA` frame has been sent.
    * `offset` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The offset position at which to begin reading.
    * `length` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The amount of data from the fd to send.

Initiates a response whose data is read from the given file descriptor. No
validation is performed on the given file descriptor. If an error occurs while
attempting to read data using the file descriptor, the `Http2Stream` will be
closed using an `RST_STREAM` frame using the standard `INTERNAL_ERROR` code.

When used, the `Http2Stream` object's `Duplex` interface will be closed
automatically.

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http2';
    import { openSync, fstatSync, closeSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    const server = createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      const fd = openSync('/some/file', 'r');
    
      const stat = fstatSync(fd);
      const headers = {
        'content-length': stat.size,
        'last-modified': stat.mtime.toUTCString(),
        'content-type': 'text/plain; charset=utf-8',
      };
      stream.respondWithFD(fd, headers);
      stream.on('close', () => closeSync(fd));
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    const server = http2.createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      const fd = fs.openSync('/some/file', 'r');
    
      const stat = fs.fstatSync(fd);
      const headers = {
        'content-length': stat.size,
        'last-modified': stat.mtime.toUTCString(),
        'content-type': 'text/plain; charset=utf-8',
      };
      stream.respondWithFD(fd, headers);
      stream.on('close', () => fs.closeSync(fd));
    });copy

The optional `options.statCheck` function may be specified to give user code
an opportunity to set additional content headers based on the `fs.Stat`
details of the given fd. If the `statCheck` function is provided, the
`http2stream.respondWithFD()` method will perform an `fs.fstat()` call to
collect details on the provided file descriptor.

The `offset` and `length` options may be used to limit the response to a
specific range subset. This can be used, for instance, to support HTTP Range
requests.

The file descriptor or `FileHandle` is not closed when the stream is closed,
so it will need to be closed manually once it is no longer needed. Using the
same file descriptor concurrently for multiple streams is not supported and
may result in data loss. Re-using a file descriptor after a stream has
finished is supported.

When the `options.waitForTrailers` option is set, the `'wantTrailers'` event
will be emitted immediately after queuing the last chunk of payload data to be
sent. The `http2stream.sendTrailers()` method can then be used to sent
trailing header fields to the peer.

When `options.waitForTrailers` is set, the `Http2Stream` will not
automatically close when the final `DATA` frame is transmitted. User code
_must_ call either `http2stream.sendTrailers()` or `http2stream.close()` to
close the `Http2Stream`.

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http2';
    import { openSync, fstatSync, closeSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    const server = createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      const fd = openSync('/some/file', 'r');
    
      const stat = fstatSync(fd);
      const headers = {
        'content-length': stat.size,
        'last-modified': stat.mtime.toUTCString(),
        'content-type': 'text/plain; charset=utf-8',
      };
      stream.respondWithFD(fd, headers, { waitForTrailers: true });
      stream.on('wantTrailers', () => {
        stream.sendTrailers({ ABC: 'some value to send' });
      });
    
      stream.on('close', () => closeSync(fd));
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    const server = http2.createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      const fd = fs.openSync('/some/file', 'r');
    
      const stat = fs.fstatSync(fd);
      const headers = {
        'content-length': stat.size,
        'last-modified': stat.mtime.toUTCString(),
        'content-type': 'text/plain; charset=utf-8',
      };
      stream.respondWithFD(fd, headers, { waitForTrailers: true });
      stream.on('wantTrailers', () => {
        stream.sendTrailers({ ABC: 'some value to send' });
      });
    
      stream.on('close', () => fs.closeSync(fd));
    });copy

##### `http2stream.respondWithFile(path[, headers[, options]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.5.0, v12.19.0 | Allow explicitly setting date headers.  
v10.0.0 | Any readable file, not necessarily a regular file, is supported now.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL>
  * `headers` <HTTP/2 Headers Object>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `statCheck` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `onError` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Callback function invoked in the case of an error before send.
    * `waitForTrailers` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, the `Http2Stream` will emit the `'wantTrailers'` event after the final `DATA` frame has been sent.
    * `offset` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The offset position at which to begin reading.
    * `length` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The amount of data from the fd to send.

Sends a regular file as the response. The `path` must specify a regular file
or an `'error'` event will be emitted on the `Http2Stream` object.

When used, the `Http2Stream` object's `Duplex` interface will be closed
automatically.

The optional `options.statCheck` function may be specified to give user code
an opportunity to set additional content headers based on the `fs.Stat`
details of the given file:

If an error occurs while attempting to read the file data, the `Http2Stream`
will be closed using an `RST_STREAM` frame using the standard `INTERNAL_ERROR`
code. If the `onError` callback is defined, then it will be called. Otherwise
the stream will be destroyed.

Example using a file path:

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http2';
    const server = createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      function statCheck(stat, headers) {
        headers['last-modified'] = stat.mtime.toUTCString();
      }
    
      function onError(err) {
        // stream.respond() can throw if the stream has been destroyed by
        // the other side.
        try {
          if (err.code === 'ENOENT') {
            stream.respond({ ':status': 404 });
          } else {
            stream.respond({ ':status': 500 });
          }
        } catch (err) {
          // Perform actual error handling.
          console.error(err);
        }
        stream.end();
      }
    
      stream.respondWithFile('/some/file',
                             { 'content-type': 'text/plain; charset=utf-8' },
                             { statCheck, onError });
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const server = http2.createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      function statCheck(stat, headers) {
        headers['last-modified'] = stat.mtime.toUTCString();
      }
    
      function onError(err) {
        // stream.respond() can throw if the stream has been destroyed by
        // the other side.
        try {
          if (err.code === 'ENOENT') {
            stream.respond({ ':status': 404 });
          } else {
            stream.respond({ ':status': 500 });
          }
        } catch (err) {
          // Perform actual error handling.
          console.error(err);
        }
        stream.end();
      }
    
      stream.respondWithFile('/some/file',
                             { 'content-type': 'text/plain; charset=utf-8' },
                             { statCheck, onError });
    });copy

The `options.statCheck` function may also be used to cancel the send operation
by returning `false`. For instance, a conditional request may check the stat
results to determine if the file has been modified to return an appropriate
`304` response:

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http2';
    const server = createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      function statCheck(stat, headers) {
        // Check the stat here...
        stream.respond({ ':status': 304 });
        return false; // Cancel the send operation
      }
      stream.respondWithFile('/some/file',
                             { 'content-type': 'text/plain; charset=utf-8' },
                             { statCheck });
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const server = http2.createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      function statCheck(stat, headers) {
        // Check the stat here...
        stream.respond({ ':status': 304 });
        return false; // Cancel the send operation
      }
      stream.respondWithFile('/some/file',
                             { 'content-type': 'text/plain; charset=utf-8' },
                             { statCheck });
    });copy

The `content-length` header field will be automatically set.

The `offset` and `length` options may be used to limit the response to a
specific range subset. This can be used, for instance, to support HTTP Range
requests.

The `options.onError` function may also be used to handle all the errors that
could happen before the delivery of the file is initiated. The default
behavior is to destroy the stream.

When the `options.waitForTrailers` option is set, the `'wantTrailers'` event
will be emitted immediately after queuing the last chunk of payload data to be
sent. The `http2stream.sendTrailers()` method can then be used to sent
trailing header fields to the peer.

When `options.waitForTrailers` is set, the `Http2Stream` will not
automatically close when the final `DATA` frame is transmitted. User code must
call either `http2stream.sendTrailers()` or `http2stream.close()` to close the
`Http2Stream`.

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http2';
    const server = createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      stream.respondWithFile('/some/file',
                             { 'content-type': 'text/plain; charset=utf-8' },
                             { waitForTrailers: true });
      stream.on('wantTrailers', () => {
        stream.sendTrailers({ ABC: 'some value to send' });
      });
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const server = http2.createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream) => {
      stream.respondWithFile('/some/file',
                             { 'content-type': 'text/plain; charset=utf-8' },
                             { waitForTrailers: true });
      stream.on('wantTrailers', () => {
        stream.sendTrailers({ ABC: 'some value to send' });
      });
    });copy

#### Class: `Http2Server`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * Extends: <net.Server>

Instances of `Http2Server` are created using the `http2.createServer()`
function. The `Http2Server` class is not exported directly by the `node:http2`
module.

##### Event: `'checkContinue'`#

Added in: v8.5.0

  * `request` <http2.Http2ServerRequest>
  * `response` <http2.Http2ServerResponse>

If a `'request'` listener is registered or `http2.createServer()` is supplied
a callback function, the `'checkContinue'` event is emitted each time a
request with an HTTP `Expect: 100-continue` is received. If this event is not
listened for, the server will automatically respond with a status `100
Continue` as appropriate.

Handling this event involves calling `response.writeContinue()` if the client
should continue to send the request body, or generating an appropriate HTTP
response (e.g. 400 Bad Request) if the client should not continue to send the
request body.

When this event is emitted and handled, the `'request'` event will not be
emitted.

##### Event: `'connection'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `socket` <stream.Duplex>

This event is emitted when a new TCP stream is established. `socket` is
typically an object of type `net.Socket`. Usually users will not want to
access this event.

This event can also be explicitly emitted by users to inject connections into
the HTTP server. In that case, any `Duplex` stream can be passed.

##### Event: `'request'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `request` <http2.Http2ServerRequest>
  * `response` <http2.Http2ServerResponse>

Emitted each time there is a request. There may be multiple requests per
session. See the Compatibility API.

##### Event: `'session'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `session` <ServerHttp2Session>

The `'session'` event is emitted when a new `Http2Session` is created by the
`Http2Server`.

##### Event: `'sessionError'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
  * `session` <ServerHttp2Session>

The `'sessionError'` event is emitted when an `'error'` event is emitted by an
`Http2Session` object associated with the `Http2Server`.

##### Event: `'stream'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `stream` <Http2Stream> A reference to the stream
  * `headers` <HTTP/2 Headers Object> An object describing the headers
  * `flags` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The associated numeric flags
  * `rawHeaders` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array containing the raw header names followed by their respective values.

The `'stream'` event is emitted when a `'stream'` event has been emitted by an
`Http2Session` associated with the server.

See also `Http2Session`'s `'stream'` event.

    
    
    import { createServer, constants } from 'node:http2';
    const {
      HTTP2_HEADER_METHOD,
      HTTP2_HEADER_PATH,
      HTTP2_HEADER_STATUS,
      HTTP2_HEADER_CONTENT_TYPE,
    } = constants;
    
    const server = createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream, headers, flags) => {
      const method = headers[HTTP2_HEADER_METHOD];
      const path = headers[HTTP2_HEADER_PATH];
      // ...
      stream.respond({
        [HTTP2_HEADER_STATUS]: 200,
        [HTTP2_HEADER_CONTENT_TYPE]: 'text/plain; charset=utf-8',
      });
      stream.write('hello ');
      stream.end('world');
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const {
      HTTP2_HEADER_METHOD,
      HTTP2_HEADER_PATH,
      HTTP2_HEADER_STATUS,
      HTTP2_HEADER_CONTENT_TYPE,
    } = http2.constants;
    
    const server = http2.createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream, headers, flags) => {
      const method = headers[HTTP2_HEADER_METHOD];
      const path = headers[HTTP2_HEADER_PATH];
      // ...
      stream.respond({
        [HTTP2_HEADER_STATUS]: 200,
        [HTTP2_HEADER_CONTENT_TYPE]: 'text/plain; charset=utf-8',
      });
      stream.write('hello ');
      stream.end('world');
    });copy

##### Event: `'timeout'`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.0.0 | The default timeout changed from 120s to 0 (no timeout).  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
The `'timeout'` event is emitted when there is no activity on the Server for a
given number of milliseconds set using `http2server.setTimeout()`.
**Default:** 0 (no timeout)

##### `server.close([callback])`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Stops the server from establishing new sessions. This does not prevent new
request streams from being created due to the persistent nature of HTTP/2
sessions. To gracefully shut down the server, call `http2session.close()` on
all active sessions.

If `callback` is provided, it is not invoked until all active sessions have
been closed, although the server has already stopped allowing new sessions.
See `net.Server.close()` for more details.

##### `server[Symbol.asyncDispose]()`#

Added in: v20.4.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Calls `server.close()` and returns a promise that fulfills when the server has
closed.

##### `server.setTimeout([msecs][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v13.0.0 | The default timeout changed from 120s to 0 (no timeout).  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * `msecs` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** 0 (no timeout)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <Http2Server>

Used to set the timeout value for http2 server requests, and sets a callback
function that is called when there is no activity on the `Http2Server` after
`msecs` milliseconds.

The given callback is registered as a listener on the `'timeout'` event.

In case if `callback` is not a function, a new `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` error
will be thrown.

##### `server.timeout`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.0.0 | The default timeout changed from 120s to 0 (no timeout).  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Timeout in milliseconds. **Default:** 0 (no timeout)

The number of milliseconds of inactivity before a socket is presumed to have
timed out.

A value of `0` will disable the timeout behavior on incoming connections.

The socket timeout logic is set up on connection, so changing this value only
affects new connections to the server, not any existing connections.

##### `server.updateSettings([settings])`#

Added in: v15.1.0, v14.17.0

  * `settings` <HTTP/2 Settings Object>

Used to update the server with the provided settings.

Throws `ERR_HTTP2_INVALID_SETTING_VALUE` for invalid `settings` values.

Throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` for invalid `settings` argument.

#### Class: `Http2SecureServer`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * Extends: <tls.Server>

Instances of `Http2SecureServer` are created using the
`http2.createSecureServer()` function. The `Http2SecureServer` class is not
exported directly by the `node:http2` module.

##### Event: `'checkContinue'`#

Added in: v8.5.0

  * `request` <http2.Http2ServerRequest>
  * `response` <http2.Http2ServerResponse>

If a `'request'` listener is registered or `http2.createSecureServer()` is
supplied a callback function, the `'checkContinue'` event is emitted each time
a request with an HTTP `Expect: 100-continue` is received. If this event is
not listened for, the server will automatically respond with a status `100
Continue` as appropriate.

Handling this event involves calling `response.writeContinue()` if the client
should continue to send the request body, or generating an appropriate HTTP
response (e.g. 400 Bad Request) if the client should not continue to send the
request body.

When this event is emitted and handled, the `'request'` event will not be
emitted.

##### Event: `'connection'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `socket` <stream.Duplex>

This event is emitted when a new TCP stream is established, before the TLS
handshake begins. `socket` is typically an object of type `net.Socket`.
Usually users will not want to access this event.

This event can also be explicitly emitted by users to inject connections into
the HTTP server. In that case, any `Duplex` stream can be passed.

##### Event: `'request'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `request` <http2.Http2ServerRequest>
  * `response` <http2.Http2ServerResponse>

Emitted each time there is a request. There may be multiple requests per
session. See the Compatibility API.

##### Event: `'session'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `session` <ServerHttp2Session>

The `'session'` event is emitted when a new `Http2Session` is created by the
`Http2SecureServer`.

##### Event: `'sessionError'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
  * `session` <ServerHttp2Session>

The `'sessionError'` event is emitted when an `'error'` event is emitted by an
`Http2Session` object associated with the `Http2SecureServer`.

##### Event: `'stream'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `stream` <Http2Stream> A reference to the stream
  * `headers` <HTTP/2 Headers Object> An object describing the headers
  * `flags` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The associated numeric flags
  * `rawHeaders` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array containing the raw header names followed by their respective values.

The `'stream'` event is emitted when a `'stream'` event has been emitted by an
`Http2Session` associated with the server.

See also `Http2Session`'s `'stream'` event.

    
    
    import { createSecureServer, constants } from 'node:http2';
    const {
      HTTP2_HEADER_METHOD,
      HTTP2_HEADER_PATH,
      HTTP2_HEADER_STATUS,
      HTTP2_HEADER_CONTENT_TYPE,
    } = constants;
    
    const options = getOptionsSomehow();
    
    const server = createSecureServer(options);
    server.on('stream', (stream, headers, flags) => {
      const method = headers[HTTP2_HEADER_METHOD];
      const path = headers[HTTP2_HEADER_PATH];
      // ...
      stream.respond({
        [HTTP2_HEADER_STATUS]: 200,
        [HTTP2_HEADER_CONTENT_TYPE]: 'text/plain; charset=utf-8',
      });
      stream.write('hello ');
      stream.end('world');
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const {
      HTTP2_HEADER_METHOD,
      HTTP2_HEADER_PATH,
      HTTP2_HEADER_STATUS,
      HTTP2_HEADER_CONTENT_TYPE,
    } = http2.constants;
    
    const options = getOptionsSomehow();
    
    const server = http2.createSecureServer(options);
    server.on('stream', (stream, headers, flags) => {
      const method = headers[HTTP2_HEADER_METHOD];
      const path = headers[HTTP2_HEADER_PATH];
      // ...
      stream.respond({
        [HTTP2_HEADER_STATUS]: 200,
        [HTTP2_HEADER_CONTENT_TYPE]: 'text/plain; charset=utf-8',
      });
      stream.write('hello ');
      stream.end('world');
    });copy

##### Event: `'timeout'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

The `'timeout'` event is emitted when there is no activity on the Server for a
given number of milliseconds set using `http2secureServer.setTimeout()`.
**Default:** 2 minutes.

##### Event: `'unknownProtocol'`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This event will only be emitted if the client did not transmit an ALPN extension during the TLS handshake.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * `socket` <stream.Duplex>

The `'unknownProtocol'` event is emitted when a connecting client fails to
negotiate an allowed protocol (i.e. HTTP/2 or HTTP/1.1). The event handler
receives the socket for handling. If no listener is registered for this event,
the connection is terminated. A timeout may be specified using the
`'unknownProtocolTimeout'` option passed to `http2.createSecureServer()`.

In earlier versions of Node.js, this event would be emitted if `allowHTTP1` is
`false` and, during the TLS handshake, the client either does not send an ALPN
extension or sends an ALPN extension that does not include HTTP/2 (`h2`).
Newer versions of Node.js only emit this event if `allowHTTP1` is `false` and
the client does not send an ALPN extension. If the client sends an ALPN
extension that does not include HTTP/2 (or HTTP/1.1 if `allowHTTP1` is
`true`), the TLS handshake will fail and no secure connection will be
established.

See the Compatibility API.

##### `server.close([callback])`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Stops the server from establishing new sessions. This does not prevent new
request streams from being created due to the persistent nature of HTTP/2
sessions. To gracefully shut down the server, call `http2session.close()` on
all active sessions.

If `callback` is provided, it is not invoked until all active sessions have
been closed, although the server has already stopped allowing new sessions.
See `tls.Server.close()` for more details.

##### `server.setTimeout([msecs][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * `msecs` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `120000` (2 minutes)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <Http2SecureServer>

Used to set the timeout value for http2 secure server requests, and sets a
callback function that is called when there is no activity on the
`Http2SecureServer` after `msecs` milliseconds.

The given callback is registered as a listener on the `'timeout'` event.

In case if `callback` is not a function, a new `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` error
will be thrown.

##### `server.timeout`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.0.0 | The default timeout changed from 120s to 0 (no timeout).  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Timeout in milliseconds. **Default:** 0 (no timeout)

The number of milliseconds of inactivity before a socket is presumed to have
timed out.

A value of `0` will disable the timeout behavior on incoming connections.

The socket timeout logic is set up on connection, so changing this value only
affects new connections to the server, not any existing connections.

##### `server.updateSettings([settings])`#

Added in: v15.1.0, v14.17.0

  * `settings` <HTTP/2 Settings Object>

Used to update the server with the provided settings.

Throws `ERR_HTTP2_INVALID_SETTING_VALUE` for invalid `settings` values.

Throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` for invalid `settings` argument.

#### `http2.createServer([options][, onRequestHandler])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | Added `streamResetBurst` and `streamResetRate`.  
v13.0.0 | The `PADDING_STRATEGY_CALLBACK` has been made equivalent to providing `PADDING_STRATEGY_ALIGNED` and `selectPadding` has been removed.  
v13.3.0, v12.16.0 | Added `maxSessionRejectedStreams` option with a default of 100.  
v13.3.0, v12.16.0 | Added `maxSessionInvalidFrames` option with a default of 1000.  
v12.4.0 | The `options` parameter now supports `net.createServer()` options.  
v15.10.0, v14.16.0, v12.21.0, v10.24.0 | Added `unknownProtocolTimeout` option with a default of 10000.  
v14.4.0, v12.18.0, v10.21.0 | Added `maxSettings` option with a default of 32.  
v9.6.0 | Added the `Http1IncomingMessage` and `Http1ServerResponse` option.  
v8.9.3 | Added the `maxOutstandingPings` option with a default limit of 10.  
v8.9.3 | Added the `maxHeaderListPairs` option with a default limit of 128 header pairs.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `maxDeflateDynamicTableSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum dynamic table size for deflating header fields. **Default:** `4Kib`.
    * `maxSettings` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum number of settings entries per `SETTINGS` frame. The minimum value allowed is `1`. **Default:** `32`.
    * `maxSessionMemory`[<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum memory that the `Http2Session` is permitted to use. The value is expressed in terms of number of megabytes, e.g. `1` equal 1 megabyte. The minimum value allowed is `1`. This is a credit based limit, existing `Http2Stream`s may cause this limit to be exceeded, but new `Http2Stream` instances will be rejected while this limit is exceeded. The current number of `Http2Stream` sessions, the current memory use of the header compression tables, current data queued to be sent, and unacknowledged `PING` and `SETTINGS` frames are all counted towards the current limit. **Default:** `10`.
    * `maxHeaderListPairs` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum number of header entries. This is similar to `server.maxHeadersCount` or `request.maxHeadersCount` in the `node:http` module. The minimum value is `4`. **Default:** `128`.
    * `maxOutstandingPings` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum number of outstanding, unacknowledged pings. **Default:** `10`.
    * `maxSendHeaderBlockLength` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum allowed size for a serialized, compressed block of headers. Attempts to send headers that exceed this limit will result in a `'frameError'` event being emitted and the stream being closed and destroyed. While this sets the maximum allowed size to the entire block of headers, `nghttp2` (the internal http2 library) has a limit of `65536` for each decompressed key/value pair.
    * `paddingStrategy` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The strategy used for determining the amount of padding to use for `HEADERS` and `DATA` frames. **Default:** `http2.constants.PADDING_STRATEGY_NONE`. Value may be one of: 
      * `http2.constants.PADDING_STRATEGY_NONE`: No padding is applied.
      * `http2.constants.PADDING_STRATEGY_MAX`: The maximum amount of padding, determined by the internal implementation, is applied.
      * `http2.constants.PADDING_STRATEGY_ALIGNED`: Attempts to apply enough padding to ensure that the total frame length, including the 9-byte header, is a multiple of 8. For each frame, there is a maximum allowed number of padding bytes that is determined by current flow control state and settings. If this maximum is less than the calculated amount needed to ensure alignment, the maximum is used and the total frame length is not necessarily aligned at 8 bytes.
    * `peerMaxConcurrentStreams` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum number of concurrent streams for the remote peer as if a `SETTINGS` frame had been received. Will be overridden if the remote peer sets its own value for `maxConcurrentStreams`. **Default:** `100`.
    * `maxSessionInvalidFrames` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum number of invalid frames that will be tolerated before the session is closed. **Default:** `1000`.
    * `maxSessionRejectedStreams` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum number of rejected upon creation streams that will be tolerated before the session is closed. Each rejection is associated with an `NGHTTP2_ENHANCE_YOUR_CALM` error that should tell the peer to not open any more streams, continuing to open streams is therefore regarded as a sign of a misbehaving peer. **Default:** `100`.
    * `settings` <HTTP/2 Settings Object> The initial settings to send to the remote peer upon connection.
    * `streamResetBurst` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) and `streamResetRate` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the rate limit for the incoming stream reset (RST_STREAM frame). Both settings must be set to have any effect, and default to 1000 and 33 respectively.
    * `remoteCustomSettings` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) The array of integer values determines the settings types, which are included in the `CustomSettings`-property of the received remoteSettings. Please see the `CustomSettings`-property of the `Http2Settings` object for more information, on the allowed setting types.
    * `Http1IncomingMessage` <http.IncomingMessage> Specifies the `IncomingMessage` class to used for HTTP/1 fallback. Useful for extending the original `http.IncomingMessage`. **Default:** `http.IncomingMessage`.
    * `Http1ServerResponse` <http.ServerResponse> Specifies the `ServerResponse` class to used for HTTP/1 fallback. Useful for extending the original `http.ServerResponse`. **Default:** `http.ServerResponse`.
    * `Http2ServerRequest` <http2.Http2ServerRequest> Specifies the `Http2ServerRequest` class to use. Useful for extending the original `Http2ServerRequest`. **Default:** `Http2ServerRequest`.
    * `Http2ServerResponse` <http2.Http2ServerResponse> Specifies the `Http2ServerResponse` class to use. Useful for extending the original `Http2ServerResponse`. **Default:** `Http2ServerResponse`.
    * `unknownProtocolTimeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies a timeout in milliseconds that a server should wait when an `'unknownProtocol'` is emitted. If the socket has not been destroyed by that time the server will destroy it. **Default:** `10000`.
    * ...: Any `net.createServer()` option can be provided.
  * `onRequestHandler` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) See Compatibility API
  * Returns: <Http2Server>

Returns a `net.Server` instance that creates and manages `Http2Session`
instances.

Since there are no browsers known that support [unencrypted
HTTP/2](https://http2.github.io/faq/#does-http2-require-encryption), the use
of `http2.createSecureServer()` is necessary when communicating with browser
clients.

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http2';
    
    // Create an unencrypted HTTP/2 server.
    // Since there are no browsers known that support
    // unencrypted HTTP/2, the use of `createSecureServer()`
    // is necessary when communicating with browser clients.
    const server = createServer();
    
    server.on('stream', (stream, headers) => {
      stream.respond({
        'content-type': 'text/html; charset=utf-8',
        ':status': 200,
      });
      stream.end('<h1>Hello World</h1>');
    });
    
    server.listen(8000);const http2 = require('node:http2');
    
    // Create an unencrypted HTTP/2 server.
    // Since there are no browsers known that support
    // unencrypted HTTP/2, the use of `http2.createSecureServer()`
    // is necessary when communicating with browser clients.
    const server = http2.createServer();
    
    server.on('stream', (stream, headers) => {
      stream.respond({
        'content-type': 'text/html; charset=utf-8',
        ':status': 200,
      });
      stream.end('<h1>Hello World</h1>');
    });
    
    server.listen(8000);copy

#### `http2.createSecureServer(options[, onRequestHandler])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.0.0 | The `PADDING_STRATEGY_CALLBACK` has been made equivalent to providing `PADDING_STRATEGY_ALIGNED` and `selectPadding` has been removed.  
v13.3.0, v12.16.0 | Added `maxSessionRejectedStreams` option with a default of 100.  
v13.3.0, v12.16.0 | Added `maxSessionInvalidFrames` option with a default of 1000.  
v15.10.0, v14.16.0, v12.21.0, v10.24.0 | Added `unknownProtocolTimeout` option with a default of 10000.  
v14.4.0, v12.18.0, v10.21.0 | Added `maxSettings` option with a default of 32.  
v10.12.0 | Added the `origins` option to automatically send an `ORIGIN` frame on `Http2Session` startup.  
v8.9.3 | Added the `maxOutstandingPings` option with a default limit of 10.  
v8.9.3 | Added the `maxHeaderListPairs` option with a default limit of 128 header pairs.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `allowHTTP1` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Incoming client connections that do not support HTTP/2 will be downgraded to HTTP/1.x when set to `true`. See the `'unknownProtocol'` event. See ALPN negotiation. **Default:** `false`.
    * `maxDeflateDynamicTableSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum dynamic table size for deflating header fields. **Default:** `4Kib`.
    * `maxSettings` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum number of settings entries per `SETTINGS` frame. The minimum value allowed is `1`. **Default:** `32`.
    * `maxSessionMemory`[<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum memory that the `Http2Session` is permitted to use. The value is expressed in terms of number of megabytes, e.g. `1` equal 1 megabyte. The minimum value allowed is `1`. This is a credit based limit, existing `Http2Stream`s may cause this limit to be exceeded, but new `Http2Stream` instances will be rejected while this limit is exceeded. The current number of `Http2Stream` sessions, the current memory use of the header compression tables, current data queued to be sent, and unacknowledged `PING` and `SETTINGS` frames are all counted towards the current limit. **Default:** `10`.
    * `maxHeaderListPairs` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum number of header entries. This is similar to `server.maxHeadersCount` or `request.maxHeadersCount` in the `node:http` module. The minimum value is `4`. **Default:** `128`.
    * `maxOutstandingPings` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum number of outstanding, unacknowledged pings. **Default:** `10`.
    * `maxSendHeaderBlockLength` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum allowed size for a serialized, compressed block of headers. Attempts to send headers that exceed this limit will result in a `'frameError'` event being emitted and the stream being closed and destroyed.
    * `paddingStrategy` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Strategy used for determining the amount of padding to use for `HEADERS` and `DATA` frames. **Default:** `http2.constants.PADDING_STRATEGY_NONE`. Value may be one of: 
      * `http2.constants.PADDING_STRATEGY_NONE`: No padding is applied.
      * `http2.constants.PADDING_STRATEGY_MAX`: The maximum amount of padding, determined by the internal implementation, is applied.
      * `http2.constants.PADDING_STRATEGY_ALIGNED`: Attempts to apply enough padding to ensure that the total frame length, including the 9-byte header, is a multiple of 8. For each frame, there is a maximum allowed number of padding bytes that is determined by current flow control state and settings. If this maximum is less than the calculated amount needed to ensure alignment, the maximum is used and the total frame length is not necessarily aligned at 8 bytes.
    * `peerMaxConcurrentStreams` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum number of concurrent streams for the remote peer as if a `SETTINGS` frame had been received. Will be overridden if the remote peer sets its own value for `maxConcurrentStreams`. **Default:** `100`.
    * `maxSessionInvalidFrames` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum number of invalid frames that will be tolerated before the session is closed. **Default:** `1000`.
    * `maxSessionRejectedStreams` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum number of rejected upon creation streams that will be tolerated before the session is closed. Each rejection is associated with an `NGHTTP2_ENHANCE_YOUR_CALM` error that should tell the peer to not open any more streams, continuing to open streams is therefore regarded as a sign of a misbehaving peer. **Default:** `100`.
    * `settings` <HTTP/2 Settings Object> The initial settings to send to the remote peer upon connection.
    * `streamResetBurst` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) and `streamResetRate` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the rate limit for the incoming stream reset (RST_STREAM frame). Both settings must be set to have any effect, and default to 1000 and 33 respectively.
    * `remoteCustomSettings` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) The array of integer values determines the settings types, which are included in the `customSettings`-property of the received remoteSettings. Please see the `customSettings`-property of the `Http2Settings` object for more information, on the allowed setting types.
    * ...: Any `tls.createServer()` options can be provided. For servers, the identity options (`pfx` or `key`/`cert`) are usually required.
    * `origins` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) An array of origin strings to send within an `ORIGIN` frame immediately following creation of a new server `Http2Session`.
    * `unknownProtocolTimeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies a timeout in milliseconds that a server should wait when an `'unknownProtocol'` event is emitted. If the socket has not been destroyed by that time the server will destroy it. **Default:** `10000`.
  * `onRequestHandler` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) See Compatibility API
  * Returns: <Http2SecureServer>

Returns a `tls.Server` instance that creates and manages `Http2Session`
instances.

    
    
    import { createSecureServer } from 'node:http2';
    import { readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    const options = {
      key: readFileSync('server-key.pem'),
      cert: readFileSync('server-cert.pem'),
    };
    
    // Create a secure HTTP/2 server
    const server = createSecureServer(options);
    
    server.on('stream', (stream, headers) => {
      stream.respond({
        'content-type': 'text/html; charset=utf-8',
        ':status': 200,
      });
      stream.end('<h1>Hello World</h1>');
    });
    
    server.listen(8443);const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    const options = {
      key: fs.readFileSync('server-key.pem'),
      cert: fs.readFileSync('server-cert.pem'),
    };
    
    // Create a secure HTTP/2 server
    const server = http2.createSecureServer(options);
    
    server.on('stream', (stream, headers) => {
      stream.respond({
        'content-type': 'text/html; charset=utf-8',
        ':status': 200,
      });
      stream.end('<h1>Hello World</h1>');
    });
    
    server.listen(8443);copy

#### `http2.connect(authority[, options][, listener])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.0.0 | The `PADDING_STRATEGY_CALLBACK` has been made equivalent to providing `PADDING_STRATEGY_ALIGNED` and `selectPadding` has been removed.  
v15.10.0, v14.16.0, v12.21.0, v10.24.0 | Added `unknownProtocolTimeout` option with a default of 10000.  
v14.4.0, v12.18.0, v10.21.0 | Added `maxSettings` option with a default of 32.  
v8.9.3 | Added the `maxOutstandingPings` option with a default limit of 10.  
v8.9.3 | Added the `maxHeaderListPairs` option with a default limit of 128 header pairs.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * `authority` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> The remote HTTP/2 server to connect to. This must be in the form of a minimal, valid URL with the `http://` or `https://` prefix, host name, and IP port (if a non-default port is used). Userinfo (user ID and password), path, querystring, and fragment details in the URL will be ignored.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `maxDeflateDynamicTableSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum dynamic table size for deflating header fields. **Default:** `4Kib`.
    * `maxSettings` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum number of settings entries per `SETTINGS` frame. The minimum value allowed is `1`. **Default:** `32`.
    * `maxSessionMemory`[<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum memory that the `Http2Session` is permitted to use. The value is expressed in terms of number of megabytes, e.g. `1` equal 1 megabyte. The minimum value allowed is `1`. This is a credit based limit, existing `Http2Stream`s may cause this limit to be exceeded, but new `Http2Stream` instances will be rejected while this limit is exceeded. The current number of `Http2Stream` sessions, the current memory use of the header compression tables, current data queued to be sent, and unacknowledged `PING` and `SETTINGS` frames are all counted towards the current limit. **Default:** `10`.
    * `maxHeaderListPairs` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum number of header entries. This is similar to `server.maxHeadersCount` or `request.maxHeadersCount` in the `node:http` module. The minimum value is `1`. **Default:** `128`.
    * `maxOutstandingPings` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum number of outstanding, unacknowledged pings. **Default:** `10`.
    * `maxReservedRemoteStreams` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum number of reserved push streams the client will accept at any given time. Once the current number of currently reserved push streams exceeds reaches this limit, new push streams sent by the server will be automatically rejected. The minimum allowed value is 0. The maximum allowed value is 232-1. A negative value sets this option to the maximum allowed value. **Default:** `200`.
    * `maxSendHeaderBlockLength` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum allowed size for a serialized, compressed block of headers. Attempts to send headers that exceed this limit will result in a `'frameError'` event being emitted and the stream being closed and destroyed.
    * `paddingStrategy` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Strategy used for determining the amount of padding to use for `HEADERS` and `DATA` frames. **Default:** `http2.constants.PADDING_STRATEGY_NONE`. Value may be one of: 
      * `http2.constants.PADDING_STRATEGY_NONE`: No padding is applied.
      * `http2.constants.PADDING_STRATEGY_MAX`: The maximum amount of padding, determined by the internal implementation, is applied.
      * `http2.constants.PADDING_STRATEGY_ALIGNED`: Attempts to apply enough padding to ensure that the total frame length, including the 9-byte header, is a multiple of 8. For each frame, there is a maximum allowed number of padding bytes that is determined by current flow control state and settings. If this maximum is less than the calculated amount needed to ensure alignment, the maximum is used and the total frame length is not necessarily aligned at 8 bytes.
    * `peerMaxConcurrentStreams` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the maximum number of concurrent streams for the remote peer as if a `SETTINGS` frame had been received. Will be overridden if the remote peer sets its own value for `maxConcurrentStreams`. **Default:** `100`.
    * `protocol` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The protocol to connect with, if not set in the `authority`. Value may be either `'http:'` or `'https:'`. **Default:** `'https:'`
    * `settings` <HTTP/2 Settings Object> The initial settings to send to the remote peer upon connection.
    * `remoteCustomSettings` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) The array of integer values determines the settings types, which are included in the `CustomSettings`-property of the received remoteSettings. Please see the `CustomSettings`-property of the `Http2Settings` object for more information, on the allowed setting types.
    * `createConnection` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) An optional callback that receives the `URL` instance passed to `connect` and the `options` object, and returns any `Duplex` stream that is to be used as the connection for this session.
    * ...: Any `net.connect()` or `tls.connect()` options can be provided.
    * `unknownProtocolTimeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies a timeout in milliseconds that a server should wait when an `'unknownProtocol'` event is emitted. If the socket has not been destroyed by that time the server will destroy it. **Default:** `10000`.
  * `listener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Will be registered as a one-time listener of the `'connect'` event.
  * Returns: <ClientHttp2Session>

Returns a `ClientHttp2Session` instance.

    
    
    import { connect } from 'node:http2';
    const client = connect('https://localhost:1234');
    
    /* Use the client */
    
    client.close();const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const client = http2.connect('https://localhost:1234');
    
    /* Use the client */
    
    client.close();copy

#### `http2.constants`#

Added in: v8.4.0

##### Error codes for `RST_STREAM` and `GOAWAY`#

Value| Name| Constant  
---|---|---  
`0x00`| No Error| `http2.constants.NGHTTP2_NO_ERROR`  
`0x01`| Protocol Error| `http2.constants.NGHTTP2_PROTOCOL_ERROR`  
`0x02`| Internal Error| `http2.constants.NGHTTP2_INTERNAL_ERROR`  
`0x03`| Flow Control Error| `http2.constants.NGHTTP2_FLOW_CONTROL_ERROR`  
`0x04`| Settings Timeout| `http2.constants.NGHTTP2_SETTINGS_TIMEOUT`  
`0x05`| Stream Closed| `http2.constants.NGHTTP2_STREAM_CLOSED`  
`0x06`| Frame Size Error| `http2.constants.NGHTTP2_FRAME_SIZE_ERROR`  
`0x07`| Refused Stream| `http2.constants.NGHTTP2_REFUSED_STREAM`  
`0x08`| Cancel| `http2.constants.NGHTTP2_CANCEL`  
`0x09`| Compression Error| `http2.constants.NGHTTP2_COMPRESSION_ERROR`  
`0x0a`| Connect Error| `http2.constants.NGHTTP2_CONNECT_ERROR`  
`0x0b`| Enhance Your Calm| `http2.constants.NGHTTP2_ENHANCE_YOUR_CALM`  
`0x0c`| Inadequate Security| `http2.constants.NGHTTP2_INADEQUATE_SECURITY`  
`0x0d`| HTTP/1.1 Required| `http2.constants.NGHTTP2_HTTP_1_1_REQUIRED`  
  
The `'timeout'` event is emitted when there is no activity on the Server for a
given number of milliseconds set using `http2server.setTimeout()`.

#### `http2.getDefaultSettings()`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * Returns: <HTTP/2 Settings Object>

Returns an object containing the default settings for an `Http2Session`
instance. This method returns a new object instance every time it is called so
instances returned may be safely modified for use.

#### `http2.getPackedSettings([settings])`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `settings` <HTTP/2 Settings Object>
  * Returns: <Buffer>

Returns a `Buffer` instance containing serialized representation of the given
HTTP/2 settings as specified in the
[HTTP/2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7540) specification. This is intended
for use with the `HTTP2-Settings` header field.

    
    
    import { getPackedSettings } from 'node:http2';
    
    const packed = getPackedSettings({ enablePush: false });
    
    console.log(packed.toString('base64'));
    // Prints: AAIAAAAAconst http2 = require('node:http2');
    
    const packed = http2.getPackedSettings({ enablePush: false });
    
    console.log(packed.toString('base64'));
    // Prints: AAIAAAAAcopy

#### `http2.getUnpackedSettings(buf)`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `buf` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) The packed settings.
  * Returns: <HTTP/2 Settings Object>

Returns a HTTP/2 Settings Object containing the deserialized settings from the
given `Buffer` as generated by `http2.getPackedSettings()`.

#### `http2.performServerHandshake(socket[, options])`#

Added in: v21.7.0, v20.12.0

  * `socket` <stream.Duplex>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * ...: Any `http2.createServer()` option can be provided.
  * Returns: <ServerHttp2Session>

Create an HTTP/2 server session from an existing socket.

#### `http2.sensitiveHeaders`#

Added in: v15.0.0, v14.18.0

  * [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type)

This symbol can be set as a property on the HTTP/2 headers object with an
array value in order to provide a list of headers considered sensitive. See
Sensitive headers for more details.

#### Headers object#

Headers are represented as own-properties on JavaScript objects. The property
keys will be serialized to lower-case. Property values should be strings (if
they are not they will be coerced to strings) or an `Array` of strings (in
order to send more than one value per header field).

    
    
    const headers = {
      ':status': '200',
      'content-type': 'text-plain',
      'ABC': ['has', 'more', 'than', 'one', 'value'],
    };
    
    stream.respond(headers); copy

Header objects passed to callback functions will have a `null` prototype. This
means that normal JavaScript object methods such as
`Object.prototype.toString()` and `Object.prototype.hasOwnProperty()` will not
work.

For incoming headers:

  * The `:status` header is converted to `number`.
  * Duplicates of `:status`, `:method`, `:authority`, `:scheme`, `:path`, `:protocol`, `age`, `authorization`, `access-control-allow-credentials`, `access-control-max-age`, `access-control-request-method`, `content-encoding`, `content-language`, `content-length`, `content-location`, `content-md5`, `content-range`, `content-type`, `date`, `dnt`, `etag`, `expires`, `from`, `host`, `if-match`, `if-modified-since`, `if-none-match`, `if-range`, `if-unmodified-since`, `last-modified`, `location`, `max-forwards`, `proxy-authorization`, `range`, `referer`,`retry-after`, `tk`, `upgrade-insecure-requests`, `user-agent` or `x-content-type-options` are discarded.
  * `set-cookie` is always an array. Duplicates are added to the array.
  * For duplicate `cookie` headers, the values are joined together with '; '.
  * For all other headers, the values are joined together with ', '.

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http2';
    const server = createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream, headers) => {
      console.log(headers[':path']);
      console.log(headers.ABC);
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const server = http2.createServer();
    server.on('stream', (stream, headers) => {
      console.log(headers[':path']);
      console.log(headers.ABC);
    });copy

##### Sensitive headers#

HTTP2 headers can be marked as sensitive, which means that the HTTP/2 header
compression algorithm will never index them. This can make sense for header
values with low entropy and that may be considered valuable to an attacker,
for example `Cookie` or `Authorization`. To achieve this, add the header name
to the `[http2.sensitiveHeaders]` property as an array:

    
    
    const headers = {
      ':status': '200',
      'content-type': 'text-plain',
      'cookie': 'some-cookie',
      'other-sensitive-header': 'very secret data',
      [http2.sensitiveHeaders]: ['cookie', 'other-sensitive-header'],
    };
    
    stream.respond(headers); copy

For some headers, such as `Authorization` and short `Cookie` headers, this
flag is set automatically.

This property is also set for received headers. It will contain the names of
all headers marked as sensitive, including ones marked that way automatically.

#### Settings object#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.12.0 | The `maxConcurrentStreams` setting is stricter.  
v8.9.3 | The `maxHeaderListSize` setting is now strictly enforced.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
The `http2.getDefaultSettings()`, `http2.getPackedSettings()`,
`http2.createServer()`, `http2.createSecureServer()`,
`http2session.settings()`, `http2session.localSettings`, and
`http2session.remoteSettings` APIs either return or receive as input an object
that defines configuration settings for an `Http2Session` object. These
objects are ordinary JavaScript objects containing the following properties.

  * `headerTableSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the maximum number of bytes used for header compression. The minimum allowed value is 0. The maximum allowed value is 232-1. **Default:** `4096`.
  * `enablePush` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Specifies `true` if HTTP/2 Push Streams are to be permitted on the `Http2Session` instances. **Default:** `true`.
  * `initialWindowSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the _sender's_ initial window size in bytes for stream-level flow control. The minimum allowed value is 0. The maximum allowed value is 232-1. **Default:** `65535`.
  * `maxFrameSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the size in bytes of the largest frame payload. The minimum allowed value is 16,384. The maximum allowed value is 224-1. **Default:** `16384`.
  * `maxConcurrentStreams` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the maximum number of concurrent streams permitted on an `Http2Session`. There is no default value which implies, at least theoretically, 232-1 streams may be open concurrently at any given time in an `Http2Session`. The minimum value is 0. The maximum allowed value is 232-1. **Default:** `4294967295`.
  * `maxHeaderListSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the maximum size (uncompressed octets) of header list that will be accepted. The minimum allowed value is 0. The maximum allowed value is 232-1. **Default:** `65535`.
  * `maxHeaderSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Alias for `maxHeaderListSize`.
  * `enableConnectProtocol`[<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Specifies `true` if the "Extended Connect Protocol" defined by [RFC 8441](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8441) is to be enabled. This setting is only meaningful if sent by the server. Once the `enableConnectProtocol` setting has been enabled for a given `Http2Session`, it cannot be disabled. **Default:** `false`.
  * `customSettings` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Specifies additional settings, yet not implemented in node and the underlying libraries. The key of the object defines the numeric value of the settings type (as defined in the "HTTP/2 SETTINGS" registry established by [RFC 7540]) and the values the actual numeric value of the settings. The settings type has to be an integer in the range from 1 to 2^16-1. It should not be a settings type already handled by node, i.e. currently it should be greater than 6, although it is not an error. The values need to be unsigned integers in the range from 0 to 2^32-1. Currently, a maximum of up 10 custom settings is supported. It is only supported for sending SETTINGS, or for receiving settings values specified in the `remoteCustomSettings` options of the server or client object. Do not mix the `customSettings`-mechanism for a settings id with interfaces for the natively handled settings, in case a setting becomes natively supported in a future node version.

All additional properties on the settings object are ignored.

#### Error handling#

There are several types of error conditions that may arise when using the
`node:http2` module:

Validation errors occur when an incorrect argument, option, or setting value
is passed in. These will always be reported by a synchronous `throw`.

State errors occur when an action is attempted at an incorrect time (for
instance, attempting to send data on a stream after it has closed). These will
be reported using either a synchronous `throw` or via an `'error'` event on
the `Http2Stream`, `Http2Session` or HTTP/2 Server objects, depending on where
and when the error occurs.

Internal errors occur when an HTTP/2 session fails unexpectedly. These will be
reported via an `'error'` event on the `Http2Session` or HTTP/2 Server
objects.

Protocol errors occur when various HTTP/2 protocol constraints are violated.
These will be reported using either a synchronous `throw` or via an `'error'`
event on the `Http2Stream`, `Http2Session` or HTTP/2 Server objects, depending
on where and when the error occurs.

#### Invalid character handling in header names and values#

The HTTP/2 implementation applies stricter handling of invalid characters in
HTTP header names and values than the HTTP/1 implementation.

Header field names are _case-insensitive_ and are transmitted over the wire
strictly as lower-case strings. The API provided by Node.js allows header
names to be set as mixed-case strings (e.g. `Content-Type`) but will convert
those to lower-case (e.g. `content-type`) upon transmission.

Header field-names _must only_ contain one or more of the following ASCII
characters: `a`-`z`, `A`-`Z`, `0`-`9`, `!`, `#`, `$`, `%`, `&`, `'`, `*`, `+`,
`-`, `.`, `^`, `_`, ``` (backtick), `|`, and `~`.

Using invalid characters within an HTTP header field name will cause the
stream to be closed with a protocol error being reported.

Header field values are handled with more leniency but _should_ not contain
new-line or carriage return characters and _should_ be limited to US-ASCII
characters, per the requirements of the HTTP specification.

#### Push streams on the client#

To receive pushed streams on the client, set a listener for the `'stream'`
event on the `ClientHttp2Session`:

    
    
    import { connect } from 'node:http2';
    
    const client = connect('http://localhost');
    
    client.on('stream', (pushedStream, requestHeaders) => {
      pushedStream.on('push', (responseHeaders) => {
        // Process response headers
      });
      pushedStream.on('data', (chunk) => { /* handle pushed data */ });
    });
    
    const req = client.request({ ':path': '/' });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    
    const client = http2.connect('http://localhost');
    
    client.on('stream', (pushedStream, requestHeaders) => {
      pushedStream.on('push', (responseHeaders) => {
        // Process response headers
      });
      pushedStream.on('data', (chunk) => { /* handle pushed data */ });
    });
    
    const req = client.request({ ':path': '/' });copy

#### Supporting the `CONNECT` method#

The `CONNECT` method is used to allow an HTTP/2 server to be used as a proxy
for TCP/IP connections.

A simple TCP Server:

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:net';
    
    const server = createServer((socket) => {
      let name = '';
      socket.setEncoding('utf8');
      socket.on('data', (chunk) => name += chunk);
      socket.on('end', () => socket.end(`hello ${name}`));
    });
    
    server.listen(8000);const net = require('node:net');
    
    const server = net.createServer((socket) => {
      let name = '';
      socket.setEncoding('utf8');
      socket.on('data', (chunk) => name += chunk);
      socket.on('end', () => socket.end(`hello ${name}`));
    });
    
    server.listen(8000);copy

An HTTP/2 CONNECT proxy:

    
    
    import { createServer, constants } from 'node:http2';
    const { NGHTTP2_REFUSED_STREAM, NGHTTP2_CONNECT_ERROR } = constants;
    import { connect } from 'node:net';
    
    const proxy = createServer();
    proxy.on('stream', (stream, headers) => {
      if (headers[':method'] !== 'CONNECT') {
        // Only accept CONNECT requests
        stream.close(NGHTTP2_REFUSED_STREAM);
        return;
      }
      const auth = new URL(`tcp://${headers[':authority']}`);
      // It's a very good idea to verify that hostname and port are
      // things this proxy should be connecting to.
      const socket = connect(auth.port, auth.hostname, () => {
        stream.respond();
        socket.pipe(stream);
        stream.pipe(socket);
      });
      socket.on('error', (error) => {
        stream.close(NGHTTP2_CONNECT_ERROR);
      });
    });
    
    proxy.listen(8001);const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const { NGHTTP2_REFUSED_STREAM } = http2.constants;
    const net = require('node:net');
    
    const proxy = http2.createServer();
    proxy.on('stream', (stream, headers) => {
      if (headers[':method'] !== 'CONNECT') {
        // Only accept CONNECT requests
        stream.close(NGHTTP2_REFUSED_STREAM);
        return;
      }
      const auth = new URL(`tcp://${headers[':authority']}`);
      // It's a very good idea to verify that hostname and port are
      // things this proxy should be connecting to.
      const socket = net.connect(auth.port, auth.hostname, () => {
        stream.respond();
        socket.pipe(stream);
        stream.pipe(socket);
      });
      socket.on('error', (error) => {
        stream.close(http2.constants.NGHTTP2_CONNECT_ERROR);
      });
    });
    
    proxy.listen(8001);copy

An HTTP/2 CONNECT client:

    
    
    import { connect, constants } from 'node:http2';
    
    const client = connect('http://localhost:8001');
    
    // Must not specify the ':path' and ':scheme' headers
    // for CONNECT requests or an error will be thrown.
    const req = client.request({
      ':method': 'CONNECT',
      ':authority': 'localhost:8000',
    });
    
    req.on('response', (headers) => {
      console.log(headers[constants.HTTP2_HEADER_STATUS]);
    });
    let data = '';
    req.setEncoding('utf8');
    req.on('data', (chunk) => data += chunk);
    req.on('end', () => {
      console.log(`The server says: ${data}`);
      client.close();
    });
    req.end('Jane');const http2 = require('node:http2');
    
    const client = http2.connect('http://localhost:8001');
    
    // Must not specify the ':path' and ':scheme' headers
    // for CONNECT requests or an error will be thrown.
    const req = client.request({
      ':method': 'CONNECT',
      ':authority': 'localhost:8000',
    });
    
    req.on('response', (headers) => {
      console.log(headers[http2.constants.HTTP2_HEADER_STATUS]);
    });
    let data = '';
    req.setEncoding('utf8');
    req.on('data', (chunk) => data += chunk);
    req.on('end', () => {
      console.log(`The server says: ${data}`);
      client.close();
    });
    req.end('Jane');copy

#### The extended `CONNECT` protocol#

[RFC 8441](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8441) defines an "Extended CONNECT
Protocol" extension to HTTP/2 that may be used to bootstrap the use of an
`Http2Stream` using the `CONNECT` method as a tunnel for other communication
protocols (such as WebSockets).

The use of the Extended CONNECT Protocol is enabled by HTTP/2 servers by using
the `enableConnectProtocol` setting:

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http2';
    const settings = { enableConnectProtocol: true };
    const server = createServer({ settings });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const settings = { enableConnectProtocol: true };
    const server = http2.createServer({ settings });copy

Once the client receives the `SETTINGS` frame from the server indicating that
the extended CONNECT may be used, it may send `CONNECT` requests that use the
`':protocol'` HTTP/2 pseudo-header:

    
    
    import { connect } from 'node:http2';
    const client = connect('http://localhost:8080');
    client.on('remoteSettings', (settings) => {
      if (settings.enableConnectProtocol) {
        const req = client.request({ ':method': 'CONNECT', ':protocol': 'foo' });
        // ...
      }
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const client = http2.connect('http://localhost:8080');
    client.on('remoteSettings', (settings) => {
      if (settings.enableConnectProtocol) {
        const req = client.request({ ':method': 'CONNECT', ':protocol': 'foo' });
        // ...
      }
    });copy

### Compatibility API#

The Compatibility API has the goal of providing a similar developer experience
of HTTP/1 when using HTTP/2, making it possible to develop applications that
support both [HTTP/1](http.html) and HTTP/2. This API targets only the
**public API** of the [HTTP/1](http.html). However many modules use internal
methods or state, and those _are not supported_ as it is a completely
different implementation.

The following example creates an HTTP/2 server using the compatibility API:

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http2';
    const server = createServer((req, res) => {
      res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/html');
      res.setHeader('X-Foo', 'bar');
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'text/plain; charset=utf-8' });
      res.end('ok');
    });const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const server = http2.createServer((req, res) => {
      res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/html');
      res.setHeader('X-Foo', 'bar');
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'text/plain; charset=utf-8' });
      res.end('ok');
    });copy

In order to create a mixed [HTTPS](https.html) and HTTP/2 server, refer to the
ALPN negotiation section. Upgrading from non-tls HTTP/1 servers is not
supported.

The HTTP/2 compatibility API is composed of `Http2ServerRequest` and
`Http2ServerResponse`. They aim at API compatibility with HTTP/1, but they do
not hide the differences between the protocols. As an example, the status
message for HTTP codes is ignored.

#### ALPN negotiation#

ALPN negotiation allows supporting both [HTTPS](https.html) and HTTP/2 over
the same socket. The `req` and `res` objects can be either HTTP/1 or HTTP/2,
and an application **must** restrict itself to the public API of
[HTTP/1](http.html), and detect if it is possible to use the more advanced
features of HTTP/2.

The following example creates a server that supports both protocols:

    
    
    import { createSecureServer } from 'node:http2';
    import { readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    const cert = readFileSync('./cert.pem');
    const key = readFileSync('./key.pem');
    
    const server = createSecureServer(
      { cert, key, allowHTTP1: true },
      onRequest,
    ).listen(8000);
    
    function onRequest(req, res) {
      // Detects if it is a HTTPS request or HTTP/2
      const { socket: { alpnProtocol } } = req.httpVersion === '2.0' ?
        req.stream.session : req;
      res.writeHead(200, { 'content-type': 'application/json' });
      res.end(JSON.stringify({
        alpnProtocol,
        httpVersion: req.httpVersion,
      }));
    }const { createSecureServer } = require('node:http2');
    const { readFileSync } = require('node:fs');
    
    const cert = readFileSync('./cert.pem');
    const key = readFileSync('./key.pem');
    
    const server = createSecureServer(
      { cert, key, allowHTTP1: true },
      onRequest,
    ).listen(4443);
    
    function onRequest(req, res) {
      // Detects if it is a HTTPS request or HTTP/2
      const { socket: { alpnProtocol } } = req.httpVersion === '2.0' ?
        req.stream.session : req;
      res.writeHead(200, { 'content-type': 'application/json' });
      res.end(JSON.stringify({
        alpnProtocol,
        httpVersion: req.httpVersion,
      }));
    }copy

The `'request'` event works identically on both [HTTPS](https.html) and
HTTP/2.

#### Class: `http2.Http2ServerRequest`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * Extends: <stream.Readable>

A `Http2ServerRequest` object is created by `http2.Server` or
`http2.SecureServer` and passed as the first argument to the `'request'`
event. It may be used to access a request status, headers, and data.

##### Event: `'aborted'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

The `'aborted'` event is emitted whenever a `Http2ServerRequest` instance is
abnormally aborted in mid-communication.

The `'aborted'` event will only be emitted if the `Http2ServerRequest`
writable side has not been ended.

##### Event: `'close'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

Indicates that the underlying `Http2Stream` was closed. Just like `'end'`,
this event occurs only once per response.

##### `request.aborted`#

Added in: v10.1.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `request.aborted` property will be `true` if the request has been aborted.

##### `request.authority`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The request authority pseudo header field. Because HTTP/2 allows requests to
set either `:authority` or `host`, this value is derived from
`req.headers[':authority']` if present. Otherwise, it is derived from
`req.headers['host']`.

##### `request.complete`#

Added in: v12.10.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `request.complete` property will be `true` if the request has been
completed, aborted, or destroyed.

##### `request.connection`#

Added in: v8.4.0Deprecated since: v13.0.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. Use `request.socket`.

  * <net.Socket> | <tls.TLSSocket>

See `request.socket`.

##### `request.destroy([error])`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Calls `destroy()` on the `Http2Stream` that received the `Http2ServerRequest`.
If `error` is provided, an `'error'` event is emitted and `error` is passed as
an argument to any listeners on the event.

It does nothing if the stream was already destroyed.

##### `request.headers`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The request/response headers object.

Key-value pairs of header names and values. Header names are lower-cased.

    
    
    // Prints something like:
    //
    // { 'user-agent': 'curl/7.22.0',
    //   host: '127.0.0.1:8000',
    //   accept: '*/*' }
    console.log(request.headers); copy

See HTTP/2 Headers Object.

In HTTP/2, the request path, host name, protocol, and method are represented
as special headers prefixed with the `:` character (e.g. `':path'`). These
special headers will be included in the `request.headers` object. Care must be
taken not to inadvertently modify these special headers or errors may occur.
For instance, removing all headers from the request will cause errors to
occur:

    
    
    removeAllHeaders(request.headers);
    assert(request.url);   // Fails because the :path header has been removed copy

##### `request.httpVersion`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

In case of server request, the HTTP version sent by the client. In the case of
client response, the HTTP version of the connected-to server. Returns `'2.0'`.

Also `message.httpVersionMajor` is the first integer and
`message.httpVersionMinor` is the second.

##### `request.method`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The request method as a string. Read-only. Examples: `'GET'`, `'DELETE'`.

##### `request.rawHeaders`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The raw request/response headers list exactly as they were received.

The keys and values are in the same list. It is _not_ a list of tuples. So,
the even-numbered offsets are key values, and the odd-numbered offsets are the
associated values.

Header names are not lowercased, and duplicates are not merged.

    
    
    // Prints something like:
    //
    // [ 'user-agent',
    //   'this is invalid because there can be only one',
    //   'User-Agent',
    //   'curl/7.22.0',
    //   'Host',
    //   '127.0.0.1:8000',
    //   'ACCEPT',
    //   '*/*' ]
    console.log(request.rawHeaders); copy

##### `request.rawTrailers`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The raw request/response trailer keys and values exactly as they were
received. Only populated at the `'end'` event.

##### `request.scheme`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The request scheme pseudo header field indicating the scheme portion of the
target URL.

##### `request.setTimeout(msecs, callback)`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `msecs` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <http2.Http2ServerRequest>

Sets the `Http2Stream`'s timeout value to `msecs`. If a callback is provided,
then it is added as a listener on the `'timeout'` event on the response
object.

If no `'timeout'` listener is added to the request, the response, or the
server, then `Http2Stream`s are destroyed when they time out. If a handler is
assigned to the request, the response, or the server's `'timeout'` events,
timed out sockets must be handled explicitly.

##### `request.socket`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * <net.Socket> | <tls.TLSSocket>

Returns a `Proxy` object that acts as a `net.Socket` (or `tls.TLSSocket`) but
applies getters, setters, and methods based on HTTP/2 logic.

`destroyed`, `readable`, and `writable` properties will be retrieved from and
set on `request.stream`.

`destroy`, `emit`, `end`, `on` and `once` methods will be called on
`request.stream`.

`setTimeout` method will be called on `request.stream.session`.

`pause`, `read`, `resume`, and `write` will throw an error with code
`ERR_HTTP2_NO_SOCKET_MANIPULATION`. See `Http2Session` and Sockets for more
information.

All other interactions will be routed directly to the socket. With TLS
support, use `request.socket.getPeerCertificate()` to obtain the client's
authentication details.

##### `request.stream`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * <Http2Stream>

The `Http2Stream` object backing the request.

##### `request.trailers`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The request/response trailers object. Only populated at the `'end'` event.

##### `request.url`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Request URL string. This contains only the URL that is present in the actual
HTTP request. If the request is:

    
    
    GET /status?name=ryan HTTP/1.1
    Accept: text/plain copy

Then `request.url` will be:

    
    
    '/status?name=ryan' copy

To parse the url into its parts, `new URL()` can be used:

    
    
    $ node
    > new URL('/status?name=ryan', 'http://example.com')
    URL {
      href: 'http://example.com/status?name=ryan',
      origin: 'http://example.com',
      protocol: 'http:',
      username: '',
      password: '',
      host: 'example.com',
      hostname: 'example.com',
      port: '',
      pathname: '/status',
      search: '?name=ryan',
      searchParams: URLSearchParams { 'name' => 'ryan' },
      hash: ''
    } copy

#### Class: `http2.Http2ServerResponse`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * Extends: <Stream>

This object is created internally by an HTTP server, not by the user. It is
passed as the second parameter to the `'request'` event.

##### Event: `'close'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

Indicates that the underlying `Http2Stream` was terminated before
`response.end()` was called or able to flush.

##### Event: `'finish'`#

Added in: v8.4.0

Emitted when the response has been sent. More specifically, this event is
emitted when the last segment of the response headers and body have been
handed off to the HTTP/2 multiplexing for transmission over the network. It
does not imply that the client has received anything yet.

After this event, no more events will be emitted on the response object.

##### `response.addTrailers(headers)`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `headers` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

This method adds HTTP trailing headers (a header but at the end of the
message) to the response.

Attempting to set a header field name or value that contains invalid
characters will result in a `TypeError` being thrown.

##### `response.appendHeader(name, value)`#

Added in: v21.7.0, v20.12.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `value` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Append a single header value to the header object.

If the value is an array, this is equivalent to calling this method multiple
times.

If there were no previous values for the header, this is equivalent to calling
`response.setHeader()`.

Attempting to set a header field name or value that contains invalid
characters will result in a `TypeError` being thrown.

    
    
    // Returns headers including "set-cookie: a" and "set-cookie: b"
    const server = http2.createServer((req, res) => {
      res.setHeader('set-cookie', 'a');
      res.appendHeader('set-cookie', 'b');
      res.writeHead(200);
      res.end('ok');
    }); copy

##### `response.connection`#

Added in: v8.4.0Deprecated since: v13.0.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. Use `response.socket`.

  * <net.Socket> | <tls.TLSSocket>

See `response.socket`.

##### `response.createPushResponse(headers, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * `headers` <HTTP/2 Headers Object> An object describing the headers
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Called once `http2stream.pushStream()` is finished, or either when the attempt to create the pushed `Http2Stream` has failed or has been rejected, or the state of `Http2ServerRequest` is closed prior to calling the `http2stream.pushStream()` method 
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `res` <http2.Http2ServerResponse> The newly-created `Http2ServerResponse` object

Call `http2stream.pushStream()` with the given headers, and wrap the given
`Http2Stream` on a newly created `Http2ServerResponse` as the callback
parameter if successful. When `Http2ServerRequest` is closed, the callback is
called with an error `ERR_HTTP2_INVALID_STREAM`.

##### `response.end([data[, encoding]][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | This method now returns a reference to `ServerResponse`.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

This method signals to the server that all of the response headers and body
have been sent; that server should consider this message complete. The method,
`response.end()`, MUST be called on each response.

If `data` is specified, it is equivalent to calling `response.write(data,
encoding)` followed by `response.end(callback)`.

If `callback` is specified, it will be called when the response stream is
finished.

##### `response.finished`#

Added in: v8.4.0Deprecated since: v13.4.0, v12.16.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. Use `response.writableEnded`.

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Boolean value that indicates whether the response has completed. Starts as
`false`. After `response.end()` executes, the value will be `true`.

##### `response.getHeader(name)`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Reads out a header that has already been queued but not sent to the client.
The name is case-insensitive.

    
    
    const contentType = response.getHeader('content-type'); copy

##### `response.getHeaderNames()`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns an array containing the unique names of the current outgoing headers.
All header names are lowercase.

    
    
    response.setHeader('Foo', 'bar');
    response.setHeader('Set-Cookie', ['foo=bar', 'bar=baz']);
    
    const headerNames = response.getHeaderNames();
    // headerNames === ['foo', 'set-cookie'] copy

##### `response.getHeaders()`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns a shallow copy of the current outgoing headers. Since a shallow copy
is used, array values may be mutated without additional calls to various
header-related http module methods. The keys of the returned object are the
header names and the values are the respective header values. All header names
are lowercase.

The object returned by the `response.getHeaders()` method _does not_
prototypically inherit from the JavaScript `Object`. This means that typical
`Object` methods such as `obj.toString()`, `obj.hasOwnProperty()`, and others
are not defined and _will not work_.

    
    
    response.setHeader('Foo', 'bar');
    response.setHeader('Set-Cookie', ['foo=bar', 'bar=baz']);
    
    const headers = response.getHeaders();
    // headers === { foo: 'bar', 'set-cookie': ['foo=bar', 'bar=baz'] } copy

##### `response.hasHeader(name)`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the header identified by `name` is currently set in the
outgoing headers. The header name matching is case-insensitive.

    
    
    const hasContentType = response.hasHeader('content-type'); copy

##### `response.headersSent`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

True if headers were sent, false otherwise (read-only).

##### `response.removeHeader(name)`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Removes a header that has been queued for implicit sending.

    
    
    response.removeHeader('Content-Encoding'); copy

##### `response.req`#

Added in: v15.7.0

  * <http2.Http2ServerRequest>

A reference to the original HTTP2 `request` object.

##### `response.sendDate`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

When true, the Date header will be automatically generated and sent in the
response if it is not already present in the headers. Defaults to true.

This should only be disabled for testing; HTTP requires the Date header in
responses.

##### `response.setHeader(name, value)`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `value` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Sets a single header value for implicit headers. If this header already exists
in the to-be-sent headers, its value will be replaced. Use an array of strings
here to send multiple headers with the same name.

    
    
    response.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/html; charset=utf-8'); copy

or

    
    
    response.setHeader('Set-Cookie', ['type=ninja', 'language=javascript']); copy

Attempting to set a header field name or value that contains invalid
characters will result in a `TypeError` being thrown.

When headers have been set with `response.setHeader()`, they will be merged
with any headers passed to `response.writeHead()`, with the headers passed to
`response.writeHead()` given precedence.

    
    
    // Returns content-type = text/plain
    const server = http2.createServer((req, res) => {
      res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/html; charset=utf-8');
      res.setHeader('X-Foo', 'bar');
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'text/plain; charset=utf-8' });
      res.end('ok');
    }); copy

##### `response.setTimeout(msecs[, callback])`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `msecs` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <http2.Http2ServerResponse>

Sets the `Http2Stream`'s timeout value to `msecs`. If a callback is provided,
then it is added as a listener on the `'timeout'` event on the response
object.

If no `'timeout'` listener is added to the request, the response, or the
server, then `Http2Stream`s are destroyed when they time out. If a handler is
assigned to the request, the response, or the server's `'timeout'` events,
timed out sockets must be handled explicitly.

##### `response.socket`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * <net.Socket> | <tls.TLSSocket>

Returns a `Proxy` object that acts as a `net.Socket` (or `tls.TLSSocket`) but
applies getters, setters, and methods based on HTTP/2 logic.

`destroyed`, `readable`, and `writable` properties will be retrieved from and
set on `response.stream`.

`destroy`, `emit`, `end`, `on` and `once` methods will be called on
`response.stream`.

`setTimeout` method will be called on `response.stream.session`.

`pause`, `read`, `resume`, and `write` will throw an error with code
`ERR_HTTP2_NO_SOCKET_MANIPULATION`. See `Http2Session` and Sockets for more
information.

All other interactions will be routed directly to the socket.

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:http2';
    const server = createServer((req, res) => {
      const ip = req.socket.remoteAddress;
      const port = req.socket.remotePort;
      res.end(`Your IP address is ${ip} and your source port is ${port}.`);
    }).listen(3000);const http2 = require('node:http2');
    const server = http2.createServer((req, res) => {
      const ip = req.socket.remoteAddress;
      const port = req.socket.remotePort;
      res.end(`Your IP address is ${ip} and your source port is ${port}.`);
    }).listen(3000);copy

##### `response.statusCode`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

When using implicit headers (not calling `response.writeHead()` explicitly),
this property controls the status code that will be sent to the client when
the headers get flushed.

    
    
    response.statusCode = 404; copy

After response header was sent to the client, this property indicates the
status code which was sent out.

##### `response.statusMessage`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Status message is not supported by HTTP/2 (RFC 7540 8.1.2.4). It returns an
empty string.

##### `response.stream`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * <Http2Stream>

The `Http2Stream` object backing the response.

##### `response.writableEnded`#

Added in: v12.9.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` after `response.end()` has been called. This property does not
indicate whether the data has been flushed, for this use
`writable.writableFinished` instead.

##### `response.write(chunk[, encoding][, callback])`#

Added in: v8.4.0

  * `chunk` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

If this method is called and `response.writeHead()` has not been called, it
will switch to implicit header mode and flush the implicit headers.

This sends a chunk of the response body. This method may be called multiple
times to provide successive parts of the body.

In the `node:http` module, the response body is omitted when the request is a
HEAD request. Similarly, the `204` and `304` responses _must not_ include a
message body.

`chunk` can be a string or a buffer. If `chunk` is a string, the second
parameter specifies how to encode it into a byte stream. By default the
`encoding` is `'utf8'`. `callback` will be called when this chunk of data is
flushed.

This is the raw HTTP body and has nothing to do with higher-level multi-part
body encodings that may be used.

The first time `response.write()` is called, it will send the buffered header
information and the first chunk of the body to the client. The second time
`response.write()` is called, Node.js assumes data will be streamed, and sends
the new data separately. That is, the response is buffered up to the first
chunk of the body.

Returns `true` if the entire data was flushed successfully to the kernel
buffer. Returns `false` if all or part of the data was queued in user memory.
`'drain'` will be emitted when the buffer is free again.

##### `response.writeContinue()`#

Added in: v8.4.0

Sends a status `100 Continue` to the client, indicating that the request body
should be sent. See the `'checkContinue'` event on `Http2Server` and
`Http2SecureServer`.

##### `response.writeEarlyHints(hints)`#

Added in: v18.11.0

  * `hints` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Sends a status `103 Early Hints` to the client with a Link header, indicating
that the user agent can preload/preconnect the linked resources. The `hints`
is an object containing the values of headers to be sent with early hints
message.

**Example**

    
    
    const earlyHintsLink = '</styles.css>; rel=preload; as=style';
    response.writeEarlyHints({
      'link': earlyHintsLink,
    });
    
    const earlyHintsLinks = [
      '</styles.css>; rel=preload; as=style',
      '</scripts.js>; rel=preload; as=script',
    ];
    response.writeEarlyHints({
      'link': earlyHintsLinks,
    }); copy

##### `response.writeHead(statusCode[, statusMessage][, headers])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.10.0, v10.17.0 | Return `this` from `writeHead()` to allow chaining with `end()`.  
v8.4.0 | Added in: v8.4.0  
  
  * `statusCode` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `statusMessage` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `headers` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array)
  * Returns: <http2.Http2ServerResponse>

Sends a response header to the request. The status code is a 3-digit HTTP
status code, like `404`. The last argument, `headers`, are the response
headers.

Returns a reference to the `Http2ServerResponse`, so that calls can be
chained.

For compatibility with [HTTP/1](http.html), a human-readable `statusMessage`
may be passed as the second argument. However, because the `statusMessage` has
no meaning within HTTP/2, the argument will have no effect and a process
warning will be emitted.

    
    
    const body = 'hello world';
    response.writeHead(200, {
      'Content-Length': Buffer.byteLength(body),
      'Content-Type': 'text/plain; charset=utf-8',
    }); copy

`Content-Length` is given in bytes not characters. The `Buffer.byteLength()`
API may be used to determine the number of bytes in a given encoding. On
outbound messages, Node.js does not check if Content-Length and the length of
the body being transmitted are equal or not. However, when receiving messages,
Node.js will automatically reject messages when the `Content-Length` does not
match the actual payload size.

This method may be called at most one time on a message before
`response.end()` is called.

If `response.write()` or `response.end()` are called before calling this, the
implicit/mutable headers will be calculated and call this function.

When headers have been set with `response.setHeader()`, they will be merged
with any headers passed to `response.writeHead()`, with the headers passed to
`response.writeHead()` given precedence.

    
    
    // Returns content-type = text/plain
    const server = http2.createServer((req, res) => {
      res.setHeader('Content-Type', 'text/html; charset=utf-8');
      res.setHeader('X-Foo', 'bar');
      res.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'text/plain; charset=utf-8' });
      res.end('ok');
    }); copy

Attempting to set a header field name or value that contains invalid
characters will result in a `TypeError` being thrown.

### Collecting HTTP/2 performance metrics#

The [Performance Observer](perf_hooks.html) API can be used to collect basic
performance metrics for each `Http2Session` and `Http2Stream` instance.

    
    
    import { PerformanceObserver } from 'node:perf_hooks';
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((items) => {
      const entry = items.getEntries()[0];
      console.log(entry.entryType);  // prints 'http2'
      if (entry.name === 'Http2Session') {
        // Entry contains statistics about the Http2Session
      } else if (entry.name === 'Http2Stream') {
        // Entry contains statistics about the Http2Stream
      }
    });
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['http2'] });const { PerformanceObserver } = require('node:perf_hooks');
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((items) => {
      const entry = items.getEntries()[0];
      console.log(entry.entryType);  // prints 'http2'
      if (entry.name === 'Http2Session') {
        // Entry contains statistics about the Http2Session
      } else if (entry.name === 'Http2Stream') {
        // Entry contains statistics about the Http2Stream
      }
    });
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['http2'] });copy

The `entryType` property of the `PerformanceEntry` will be equal to `'http2'`.

The `name` property of the `PerformanceEntry` will be equal to either
`'Http2Stream'` or `'Http2Session'`.

If `name` is equal to `Http2Stream`, the `PerformanceEntry` will contain the
following additional properties:

  * `bytesRead` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of `DATA` frame bytes received for this `Http2Stream`.
  * `bytesWritten` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of `DATA` frame bytes sent for this `Http2Stream`.
  * `id` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The identifier of the associated `Http2Stream`
  * `timeToFirstByte` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds elapsed between the `PerformanceEntry` `startTime` and the reception of the first `DATA` frame.
  * `timeToFirstByteSent` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds elapsed between the `PerformanceEntry` `startTime` and sending of the first `DATA` frame.
  * `timeToFirstHeader` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds elapsed between the `PerformanceEntry` `startTime` and the reception of the first header.

If `name` is equal to `Http2Session`, the `PerformanceEntry` will contain the
following additional properties:

  * `bytesRead` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes received for this `Http2Session`.
  * `bytesWritten` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes sent for this `Http2Session`.
  * `framesReceived` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of HTTP/2 frames received by the `Http2Session`.
  * `framesSent` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of HTTP/2 frames sent by the `Http2Session`.
  * `maxConcurrentStreams` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The maximum number of streams concurrently open during the lifetime of the `Http2Session`.
  * `pingRTT` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds elapsed since the transmission of a `PING` frame and the reception of its acknowledgment. Only present if a `PING` frame has been sent on the `Http2Session`.
  * `streamAverageDuration` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The average duration (in milliseconds) for all `Http2Stream` instances.
  * `streamCount` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of `Http2Stream` instances processed by the `Http2Session`.
  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Either `'server'` or `'client'` to identify the type of `Http2Session`.

### Note on `:authority` and `host`#

HTTP/2 requires requests to have either the `:authority` pseudo-header or the
`host` header. Prefer `:authority` when constructing an HTTP/2 request
directly, and `host` when converting from HTTP/1 (in proxies, for instance).

The compatibility API falls back to `host` if `:authority` is not present. See
`request.authority` for more information. However, if you don't use the
compatibility API (or use `req.headers` directly), you need to implement any
fall-back behavior yourself.

## HTTPS#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/https.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/https.js)

HTTPS is the HTTP protocol over TLS/SSL. In Node.js this is implemented as a
separate module.

### Determining if crypto support is unavailable#

It is possible for Node.js to be built without including support for the
`node:crypto` module. In such cases, attempting to `import` from `https` or
calling `require('node:https')` will result in an error being thrown.

When using CommonJS, the error thrown can be caught using try/catch:

    
    
    let https;
    try {
      https = require('node:https');
    } catch (err) {
      console.error('https support is disabled!');
    } copy

When using the lexical ESM `import` keyword, the error can only be caught if a
handler for `process.on('uncaughtException')` is registered _before_ any
attempt to load the module is made (using, for instance, a preload module).

When using ESM, if there is a chance that the code may be run on a build of
Node.js where crypto support is not enabled, consider using the
[`import()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import) function instead of the
lexical `import` keyword:

    
    
    let https;
    try {
      https = await import('node:https');
    } catch (err) {
      console.error('https support is disabled!');
    } copy

### Class: `https.Agent`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v5.3.0 | support `0` `maxCachedSessions` to disable TLS session caching.  
v2.5.0 | parameter `maxCachedSessions` added to `options` for TLS sessions reuse.  
v0.4.5 | Added in: v0.4.5  
  
An `Agent` object for HTTPS similar to `http.Agent`. See `https.request()` for
more information.

#### `new Agent([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.5.0 | do not automatically set servername if the target host was specified using an IP address.  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Set of configurable options to set on the agent. Can have the same fields as for `http.Agent(options)`, and 
    * `maxCachedSessions` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) maximum number of TLS cached sessions. Use `0` to disable TLS session caching. **Default:** `100`.

    * `servername` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) the value of [Server Name Indication extension](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_Name_Indication) to be sent to the server. Use empty string `''` to disable sending the extension. **Default:** host name of the target server, unless the target server is specified using an IP address, in which case the default is `''` (no extension).

See `Session Resumption` for information about TLS session reuse.

##### Event: `'keylog'`#

Added in: v13.2.0, v12.16.0

  * `line` <Buffer> Line of ASCII text, in NSS `SSLKEYLOGFILE` format.
  * `tlsSocket` <tls.TLSSocket> The `tls.TLSSocket` instance on which it was generated.

The `keylog` event is emitted when key material is generated or received by a
connection managed by this agent (typically before handshake has completed,
but not necessarily). This keying material can be stored for debugging, as it
allows captured TLS traffic to be decrypted. It may be emitted multiple times
for each socket.

A typical use case is to append received lines to a common text file, which is
later used by software (such as Wireshark) to decrypt the traffic:

    
    
    // ...
    https.globalAgent.on('keylog', (line, tlsSocket) => {
      fs.appendFileSync('/tmp/ssl-keys.log', line, { mode: 0o600 });
    }); copy

### Class: `https.Server`#

Added in: v0.3.4

  * Extends: <tls.Server>

See `http.Server` for more information.

#### `server.close([callback])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <https.Server>

See `server.close()` in the `node:http` module.

#### `server[Symbol.asyncDispose]()`#

Added in: v20.4.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Calls `server.close()` and returns a promise that fulfills when the server has
closed.

#### `server.closeAllConnections()`#

Added in: v18.2.0

See `server.closeAllConnections()` in the `node:http` module.

#### `server.closeIdleConnections()`#

Added in: v18.2.0

See `server.closeIdleConnections()` in the `node:http` module.

#### `server.headersTimeout`#

Added in: v11.3.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `60000`

See `server.headersTimeout` in the `node:http` module.

#### `server.listen()`#

Starts the HTTPS server listening for encrypted connections. This method is
identical to `server.listen()` from `net.Server`.

#### `server.maxHeadersCount`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `2000`

See `server.maxHeadersCount` in the `node:http` module.

#### `server.requestTimeout`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | The default request timeout changed from no timeout to 300s (5 minutes).  
v14.11.0 | Added in: v14.11.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `300000`

See `server.requestTimeout` in the `node:http` module.

#### `server.setTimeout([msecs][, callback])`#

Added in: v0.11.2

  * `msecs` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `120000` (2 minutes)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <https.Server>

See `server.setTimeout()` in the `node:http` module.

#### `server.timeout`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.0.0 | The default timeout changed from 120s to 0 (no timeout).  
v0.11.2 | Added in: v0.11.2  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** 0 (no timeout)

See `server.timeout` in the `node:http` module.

#### `server.keepAliveTimeout`#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `5000` (5 seconds)

See `server.keepAliveTimeout` in the `node:http` module.

### `https.createServer([options][, requestListener])`#

Added in: v0.3.4

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Accepts `options` from `tls.createServer()`, `tls.createSecureContext()` and `http.createServer()`.
  * `requestListener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A listener to be added to the `'request'` event.
  * Returns: <https.Server>

    
    
    // curl -k https://localhost:8000/
    import { createServer } from 'node:https';
    import { readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    const options = {
      key: readFileSync('private-key.pem'),
      cert: readFileSync('certificate.pem'),
    };
    
    createServer(options, (req, res) => {
      res.writeHead(200);
      res.end('hello world\n');
    }).listen(8000);// curl -k https://localhost:8000/
    const https = require('node:https');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    const options = {
      key: fs.readFileSync('private-key.pem'),
      cert: fs.readFileSync('certificate.pem'),
    };
    
    https.createServer(options, (req, res) => {
      res.writeHead(200);
      res.end('hello world\n');
    }).listen(8000);copy

Or

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:https';
    import { readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    const options = {
      pfx: readFileSync('test_cert.pfx'),
      passphrase: 'sample',
    };
    
    createServer(options, (req, res) => {
      res.writeHead(200);
      res.end('hello world\n');
    }).listen(8000);const https = require('node:https');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    const options = {
      pfx: fs.readFileSync('test_cert.pfx'),
      passphrase: 'sample',
    };
    
    https.createServer(options, (req, res) => {
      res.writeHead(200);
      res.end('hello world\n');
    }).listen(8000);copy

To generate the certificate and key for this example, run:

    
    
    openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -sha256 -subj '/CN=localhost' \
      -keyout private-key.pem -out certificate.pem copy

Then, to generate the `pfx` certificate for this example, run:

    
    
    openssl pkcs12 -certpbe AES-256-CBC -export -out test_cert.pfx \
      -inkey private-key.pem -in certificate.pem -passout pass:sample copy

### `https.get(options[, callback])`#

### `https.get(url[, options][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.9.0 | The `url` parameter can now be passed along with a separate `options` object.  
v7.5.0 | The `options` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object.  
v0.3.6 | Added in: v0.3.6  
  
  * `url` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> Accepts the same `options` as `https.request()`, with the method set to GET by default.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Like `http.get()` but for HTTPS.

`options` can be an object, a string, or a `URL` object. If `options` is a
string, it is automatically parsed with `new URL()`. If it is a `URL` object,
it will be automatically converted to an ordinary `options` object.

    
    
    import { get } from 'node:https';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    get('https://encrypted.google.com/', (res) => {
      console.log('statusCode:', res.statusCode);
      console.log('headers:', res.headers);
    
      res.on('data', (d) => {
        process.stdout.write(d);
      });
    
    }).on('error', (e) => {
      console.error(e);
    });const https = require('node:https');
    
    https.get('https://encrypted.google.com/', (res) => {
      console.log('statusCode:', res.statusCode);
      console.log('headers:', res.headers);
    
      res.on('data', (d) => {
        process.stdout.write(d);
      });
    
    }).on('error', (e) => {
      console.error(e);
    });copy

### `https.globalAgent`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | The agent now uses HTTP Keep-Alive and a 5 second timeout by default.  
v0.5.9 | Added in: v0.5.9  
  
Global instance of `https.Agent` for all HTTPS client requests. Diverges from
a default `https.Agent` configuration by having `keepAlive` enabled and a
`timeout` of 5 seconds.

### `https.request(options[, callback])`#

### `https.request(url[, options][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.4.0, v20.16.0 | The `clientCertEngine` option depends on custom engine support in OpenSSL which is deprecated in OpenSSL 3.  
v16.7.0, v14.18.0 | When using a `URL` object parsed username and password will now be properly URI decoded.  
v14.1.0, v13.14.0 | The `highWaterMark` option is accepted now.  
v10.9.0 | The `url` parameter can now be passed along with a separate `options` object.  
v9.3.0 | The `options` parameter can now include `clientCertEngine`.  
v7.5.0 | The `options` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object.  
v0.3.6 | Added in: v0.3.6  
  
  * `url` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> Accepts all `options` from `http.request()`, with some differences in default values: 
    * `protocol` **Default:** `'https:'`
    * `port` **Default:** `443`
    * `agent` **Default:** `https.globalAgent`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <http.ClientRequest>

Makes a request to a secure web server.

The following additional `options` from `tls.connect()` are also accepted:
`ca`, `cert`, `ciphers`, `clientCertEngine` (deprecated), `crl`, `dhparam`,
`ecdhCurve`, `honorCipherOrder`, `key`, `passphrase`, `pfx`,
`rejectUnauthorized`, `secureOptions`, `secureProtocol`, `servername`,
`sessionIdContext`, `highWaterMark`.

`options` can be an object, a string, or a `URL` object. If `options` is a
string, it is automatically parsed with `new URL()`. If it is a `URL` object,
it will be automatically converted to an ordinary `options` object.

`https.request()` returns an instance of the `http.ClientRequest` class. The
`ClientRequest` instance is a writable stream. If one needs to upload a file
with a POST request, then write to the `ClientRequest` object.

    
    
    import { request } from 'node:https';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    const options = {
      hostname: 'encrypted.google.com',
      port: 443,
      path: '/',
      method: 'GET',
    };
    
    const req = request(options, (res) => {
      console.log('statusCode:', res.statusCode);
      console.log('headers:', res.headers);
    
      res.on('data', (d) => {
        process.stdout.write(d);
      });
    });
    
    req.on('error', (e) => {
      console.error(e);
    });
    req.end();const https = require('node:https');
    
    const options = {
      hostname: 'encrypted.google.com',
      port: 443,
      path: '/',
      method: 'GET',
    };
    
    const req = https.request(options, (res) => {
      console.log('statusCode:', res.statusCode);
      console.log('headers:', res.headers);
    
      res.on('data', (d) => {
        process.stdout.write(d);
      });
    });
    
    req.on('error', (e) => {
      console.error(e);
    });
    req.end();copy

Example using options from `tls.connect()`:

    
    
    const options = {
      hostname: 'encrypted.google.com',
      port: 443,
      path: '/',
      method: 'GET',
      key: fs.readFileSync('private-key.pem'),
      cert: fs.readFileSync('certificate.pem'),
    };
    options.agent = new https.Agent(options);
    
    const req = https.request(options, (res) => {
      // ...
    }); copy

Alternatively, opt out of connection pooling by not using an `Agent`.

    
    
    const options = {
      hostname: 'encrypted.google.com',
      port: 443,
      path: '/',
      method: 'GET',
      key: fs.readFileSync('private-key.pem'),
      cert: fs.readFileSync('certificate.pem'),
      agent: false,
    };
    
    const req = https.request(options, (res) => {
      // ...
    }); copy

Example using a `URL` as `options`:

    
    
    const options = new URL('https://abc:[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)');
    
    const req = https.request(options, (res) => {
      // ...
    }); copy

Example pinning on certificate fingerprint, or the public key (similar to
`pin-sha256`):

    
    
    import { checkServerIdentity } from 'node:tls';
    import { Agent, request } from 'node:https';
    import { createHash } from 'node:crypto';
    
    function sha256(s) {
      return createHash('sha256').update(s).digest('base64');
    }
    const options = {
      hostname: 'github.com',
      port: 443,
      path: '/',
      method: 'GET',
      checkServerIdentity: function(host, cert) {
        // Make sure the certificate is issued to the host we are connected to
        const err = checkServerIdentity(host, cert);
        if (err) {
          return err;
        }
    
        // Pin the public key, similar to HPKP pin-sha256 pinning
        const pubkey256 = 'SIXvRyDmBJSgatgTQRGbInBaAK+hZOQ18UmrSwnDlK8=';
        if (sha256(cert.pubkey) !== pubkey256) {
          const msg = 'Certificate verification error: ' +
            `The public key of '${cert.subject.CN}' ` +
            'does not match our pinned fingerprint';
          return new Error(msg);
        }
    
        // Pin the exact certificate, rather than the pub key
        const cert256 = 'FD:6E:9B:0E:F3:98:BC:D9:04:C3:B2:EC:16:7A:7B:' +
          '0F:DA:72:01:C9:03:C5:3A:6A:6A:E5:D0:41:43:63:EF:65';
        if (cert.fingerprint256 !== cert256) {
          const msg = 'Certificate verification error: ' +
            `The certificate of '${cert.subject.CN}' ` +
            'does not match our pinned fingerprint';
          return new Error(msg);
        }
    
        // This loop is informational only.
        // Print the certificate and public key fingerprints of all certs in the
        // chain. Its common to pin the public key of the issuer on the public
        // internet, while pinning the public key of the service in sensitive
        // environments.
        let lastprint256;
        do {
          console.log('Subject Common Name:', cert.subject.CN);
          console.log('  Certificate SHA256 fingerprint:', cert.fingerprint256);
    
          const hash = createHash('sha256');
          console.log('  Public key ping-sha256:', sha256(cert.pubkey));
    
          lastprint256 = cert.fingerprint256;
          cert = cert.issuerCertificate;
        } while (cert.fingerprint256 !== lastprint256);
    
      },
    };
    
    options.agent = new Agent(options);
    const req = request(options, (res) => {
      console.log('All OK. Server matched our pinned cert or public key');
      console.log('statusCode:', res.statusCode);
    
      res.on('data', (d) => {});
    });
    
    req.on('error', (e) => {
      console.error(e.message);
    });
    req.end();const tls = require('node:tls');
    const https = require('node:https');
    const crypto = require('node:crypto');
    
    function sha256(s) {
      return crypto.createHash('sha256').update(s).digest('base64');
    }
    const options = {
      hostname: 'github.com',
      port: 443,
      path: '/',
      method: 'GET',
      checkServerIdentity: function(host, cert) {
        // Make sure the certificate is issued to the host we are connected to
        const err = tls.checkServerIdentity(host, cert);
        if (err) {
          return err;
        }
    
        // Pin the public key, similar to HPKP pin-sha256 pinning
        const pubkey256 = 'SIXvRyDmBJSgatgTQRGbInBaAK+hZOQ18UmrSwnDlK8=';
        if (sha256(cert.pubkey) !== pubkey256) {
          const msg = 'Certificate verification error: ' +
            `The public key of '${cert.subject.CN}' ` +
            'does not match our pinned fingerprint';
          return new Error(msg);
        }
    
        // Pin the exact certificate, rather than the pub key
        const cert256 = 'FD:6E:9B:0E:F3:98:BC:D9:04:C3:B2:EC:16:7A:7B:' +
          '0F:DA:72:01:C9:03:C5:3A:6A:6A:E5:D0:41:43:63:EF:65';
        if (cert.fingerprint256 !== cert256) {
          const msg = 'Certificate verification error: ' +
            `The certificate of '${cert.subject.CN}' ` +
            'does not match our pinned fingerprint';
          return new Error(msg);
        }
    
        // This loop is informational only.
        // Print the certificate and public key fingerprints of all certs in the
        // chain. Its common to pin the public key of the issuer on the public
        // internet, while pinning the public key of the service in sensitive
        // environments.
        do {
          console.log('Subject Common Name:', cert.subject.CN);
          console.log('  Certificate SHA256 fingerprint:', cert.fingerprint256);
    
          hash = crypto.createHash('sha256');
          console.log('  Public key ping-sha256:', sha256(cert.pubkey));
    
          lastprint256 = cert.fingerprint256;
          cert = cert.issuerCertificate;
        } while (cert.fingerprint256 !== lastprint256);
    
      },
    };
    
    options.agent = new https.Agent(options);
    const req = https.request(options, (res) => {
      console.log('All OK. Server matched our pinned cert or public key');
      console.log('statusCode:', res.statusCode);
    
      res.on('data', (d) => {});
    });
    
    req.on('error', (e) => {
      console.error(e.message);
    });
    req.end();copy

Outputs for example:

    
    
    Subject Common Name: github.com
      Certificate SHA256 fingerprint: FD:6E:9B:0E:F3:98:BC:D9:04:C3:B2:EC:16:7A:7B:0F:DA:72:01:C9:03:C5:3A:6A:6A:E5:D0:41:43:63:EF:65
      Public key ping-sha256: SIXvRyDmBJSgatgTQRGbInBaAK+hZOQ18UmrSwnDlK8=
    Subject Common Name: Sectigo ECC Domain Validation Secure Server CA
      Certificate SHA256 fingerprint: 61:E9:73:75:E9:F6:DA:98:2F:F5:C1:9E:2F:94:E6:6C:4E:35:B6:83:7C:E3:B9:14:D2:24:5C:7F:5F:65:82:5F
      Public key ping-sha256: Eep0p/AsSa9lFUH6KT2UY+9s1Z8v7voAPkQ4fGknZ2g=
    Subject Common Name: USERTrust ECC Certification Authority
      Certificate SHA256 fingerprint: A6:CF:64:DB:B4:C8:D5:FD:19:CE:48:89:60:68:DB:03:B5:33:A8:D1:33:6C:62:56:A8:7D:00:CB:B3:DE:F3:EA
      Public key ping-sha256: UJM2FOhG9aTNY0Pg4hgqjNzZ/lQBiMGRxPD5Y2/e0bw=
    Subject Common Name: AAA Certificate Services
      Certificate SHA256 fingerprint: D7:A7:A0:FB:5D:7E:27:31:D7:71:E9:48:4E:BC:DE:F7:1D:5F:0C:3E:0A:29:48:78:2B:C8:3E:E0:EA:69:9E:F4
      Public key ping-sha256: vRU+17BDT2iGsXvOi76E7TQMcTLXAqj0+jGPdW7L1vM=
    All OK. Server matched our pinned cert or public key
    statusCode: 200 copy

## Inspector#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/inspector.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/inspector.js)

The `node:inspector` module provides an API for interacting with the V8
inspector.

It can be accessed using:

    
    
    import * as inspector from 'node:inspector/promises';const inspector = require('node:inspector/promises');copy

or

    
    
    import * as inspector from 'node:inspector';const inspector = require('node:inspector');copy

### Promises API#

Added in: v19.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

#### Class: `inspector.Session`#

  * Extends: <EventEmitter>

The `inspector.Session` is used for dispatching messages to the V8 inspector
back-end and receiving message responses and notifications.

##### `new inspector.Session()`#

Added in: v8.0.0

Create a new instance of the `inspector.Session` class. The inspector session
needs to be connected through `session.connect()` before the messages can be
dispatched to the inspector backend.

When using `Session`, the object outputted by the console API will not be
released, unless we performed manually `Runtime.DiscardConsoleEntries`
command.

##### Event: `'inspectorNotification'`#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The notification message object

Emitted when any notification from the V8 Inspector is received.

    
    
    session.on('inspectorNotification', (message) => console.log(message.method));
    // Debugger.paused
    // Debugger.resumed copy

> **Caveat** Breakpoints with same-thread session is not recommended, see
> support of breakpoints.

It is also possible to subscribe only to notifications with specific method:

##### Event: `<inspector-protocol-method>`;#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The notification message object

Emitted when an inspector notification is received that has its method field
set to the `<inspector-protocol-method>` value.

The following snippet installs a listener on the
[`'Debugger.paused'`](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-
protocol/v8/Debugger#event-paused) event, and prints the reason for program
suspension whenever program execution is suspended (through breakpoints, for
example):

    
    
    session.on('Debugger.paused', ({ params }) => {
      console.log(params.hitBreakpoints);
    });
    // [ '/the/file/that/has/the/breakpoint.js:11:0' ] copy

> **Caveat** Breakpoints with same-thread session is not recommended, see
> support of breakpoints.

##### `session.connect()`#

Added in: v8.0.0

Connects a session to the inspector back-end.

##### `session.connectToMainThread()`#

Added in: v12.11.0

Connects a session to the main thread inspector back-end. An exception will be
thrown if this API was not called on a Worker thread.

##### `session.disconnect()`#

Added in: v8.0.0

Immediately close the session. All pending message callbacks will be called
with an error. `session.connect()` will need to be called to be able to send
messages again. Reconnected session will lose all inspector state, such as
enabled agents or configured breakpoints.

##### `session.post(method[, params])`#

Added in: v19.0.0

  * `method` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `params` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Posts a message to the inspector back-end.

    
    
    import { Session } from 'node:inspector/promises';
    try {
      const session = new Session();
      session.connect();
      const result = await session.post('Runtime.evaluate', { expression: '2 + 2' });
      console.log(result);
    } catch (error) {
      console.error(error);
    }
    // Output: { result: { type: 'number', value: 4, description: '4' } } copy

The latest version of the V8 inspector protocol is published on the [Chrome
DevTools Protocol Viewer](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-
protocol/v8/).

Node.js inspector supports all the Chrome DevTools Protocol domains declared
by V8. Chrome DevTools Protocol domain provides an interface for interacting
with one of the runtime agents used to inspect the application state and
listen to the run-time events.

##### Example usage#

Apart from the debugger, various V8 Profilers are available through the
DevTools protocol.

###### CPU profiler#

Here's an example showing how to use the [CPU
Profiler](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol/v8/Profiler):

    
    
    import { Session } from 'node:inspector/promises';
    import fs from 'node:fs';
    const session = new Session();
    session.connect();
    
    await session.post('Profiler.enable');
    await session.post('Profiler.start');
    // Invoke business logic under measurement here...
    
    // some time later...
    const { profile } = await session.post('Profiler.stop');
    
    // Write profile to disk, upload, etc.
    fs.writeFileSync('./profile.cpuprofile', JSON.stringify(profile)); copy

###### Heap profiler#

Here's an example showing how to use the [Heap
Profiler](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol/v8/HeapProfiler):

    
    
    import { Session } from 'node:inspector/promises';
    import fs from 'node:fs';
    const session = new Session();
    
    const fd = fs.openSync('profile.heapsnapshot', 'w');
    
    session.connect();
    
    session.on('HeapProfiler.addHeapSnapshotChunk', (m) => {
      fs.writeSync(fd, m.params.chunk);
    });
    
    const result = await session.post('HeapProfiler.takeHeapSnapshot', null);
    console.log('HeapProfiler.takeHeapSnapshot done:', result);
    session.disconnect();
    fs.closeSync(fd); copy

### Callback API#

#### Class: `inspector.Session`#

  * Extends: <EventEmitter>

The `inspector.Session` is used for dispatching messages to the V8 inspector
back-end and receiving message responses and notifications.

##### `new inspector.Session()`#

Added in: v8.0.0

Create a new instance of the `inspector.Session` class. The inspector session
needs to be connected through `session.connect()` before the messages can be
dispatched to the inspector backend.

When using `Session`, the object outputted by the console API will not be
released, unless we performed manually `Runtime.DiscardConsoleEntries`
command.

##### Event: `'inspectorNotification'`#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The notification message object

Emitted when any notification from the V8 Inspector is received.

    
    
    session.on('inspectorNotification', (message) => console.log(message.method));
    // Debugger.paused
    // Debugger.resumed copy

> **Caveat** Breakpoints with same-thread session is not recommended, see
> support of breakpoints.

It is also possible to subscribe only to notifications with specific method:

##### Event: `<inspector-protocol-method>`;#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The notification message object

Emitted when an inspector notification is received that has its method field
set to the `<inspector-protocol-method>` value.

The following snippet installs a listener on the
[`'Debugger.paused'`](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-
protocol/v8/Debugger#event-paused) event, and prints the reason for program
suspension whenever program execution is suspended (through breakpoints, for
example):

    
    
    session.on('Debugger.paused', ({ params }) => {
      console.log(params.hitBreakpoints);
    });
    // [ '/the/file/that/has/the/breakpoint.js:11:0' ] copy

> **Caveat** Breakpoints with same-thread session is not recommended, see
> support of breakpoints.

##### `session.connect()`#

Added in: v8.0.0

Connects a session to the inspector back-end.

##### `session.connectToMainThread()`#

Added in: v12.11.0

Connects a session to the main thread inspector back-end. An exception will be
thrown if this API was not called on a Worker thread.

##### `session.disconnect()`#

Added in: v8.0.0

Immediately close the session. All pending message callbacks will be called
with an error. `session.connect()` will need to be called to be able to send
messages again. Reconnected session will lose all inspector state, such as
enabled agents or configured breakpoints.

##### `session.post(method[, params][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v8.0.0 | Added in: v8.0.0  
  
  * `method` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `params` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Posts a message to the inspector back-end. `callback` will be notified when a
response is received. `callback` is a function that accepts two optional
arguments: error and message-specific result.

    
    
    session.post('Runtime.evaluate', { expression: '2 + 2' },
                 (error, { result }) => console.log(result));
    // Output: { type: 'number', value: 4, description: '4' } copy

The latest version of the V8 inspector protocol is published on the [Chrome
DevTools Protocol Viewer](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-
protocol/v8/).

Node.js inspector supports all the Chrome DevTools Protocol domains declared
by V8. Chrome DevTools Protocol domain provides an interface for interacting
with one of the runtime agents used to inspect the application state and
listen to the run-time events.

You can not set `reportProgress` to `true` when sending a
`HeapProfiler.takeHeapSnapshot` or `HeapProfiler.stopTrackingHeapObjects`
command to V8.

##### Example usage#

Apart from the debugger, various V8 Profilers are available through the
DevTools protocol.

###### CPU profiler#

Here's an example showing how to use the [CPU
Profiler](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol/v8/Profiler):

    
    
    const inspector = require('node:inspector');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const session = new inspector.Session();
    session.connect();
    
    session.post('Profiler.enable', () => {
      session.post('Profiler.start', () => {
        // Invoke business logic under measurement here...
    
        // some time later...
        session.post('Profiler.stop', (err, { profile }) => {
          // Write profile to disk, upload, etc.
          if (!err) {
            fs.writeFileSync('./profile.cpuprofile', JSON.stringify(profile));
          }
        });
      });
    }); copy

###### Heap profiler#

Here's an example showing how to use the [Heap
Profiler](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol/v8/HeapProfiler):

    
    
    const inspector = require('node:inspector');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const session = new inspector.Session();
    
    const fd = fs.openSync('profile.heapsnapshot', 'w');
    
    session.connect();
    
    session.on('HeapProfiler.addHeapSnapshotChunk', (m) => {
      fs.writeSync(fd, m.params.chunk);
    });
    
    session.post('HeapProfiler.takeHeapSnapshot', null, (err, r) => {
      console.log('HeapProfiler.takeHeapSnapshot done:', err, r);
      session.disconnect();
      fs.closeSync(fd);
    }); copy

### Common Objects#

#### `inspector.close()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.10.0 | The API is exposed in the worker threads.  
v9.0.0 | Added in: v9.0.0  
  
Attempts to close all remaining connections, blocking the event loop until all
are closed. Once all connections are closed, deactivates the inspector.

#### `inspector.console`#

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An object to send messages to the remote inspector console.

    
    
    require('node:inspector').console.log('a message'); copy

The inspector console does not have API parity with Node.js console.

#### `inspector.open([port[, host[, wait]]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.6.0 | inspector.open() now returns a `Disposable` object.  
  
  * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Port to listen on for inspector connections. Optional. **Default:** what was specified on the CLI.
  * `host` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Host to listen on for inspector connections. Optional. **Default:** what was specified on the CLI.
  * `wait` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Block until a client has connected. Optional. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<Disposable>](https://tc39.es/proposal-explicit-resource-management/#sec-disposable-interface) A Disposable that calls `inspector.close()`.

Activate inspector on host and port. Equivalent to `node
--inspect=[[host:]port]`, but can be done programmatically after node has
started.

If wait is `true`, will block until a client has connected to the inspect port
and flow control has been passed to the debugger client.

See the security warning regarding the `host` parameter usage.

#### `inspector.url()`#

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

Return the URL of the active inspector, or `undefined` if there is none.

    
    
    $ node --inspect -p 'inspector.url()'
    Debugger listening on ws://127.0.0.1:9229/166e272e-7a30-4d09-97ce-f1c012b43c34
    For help, see: https://nodejs.org/en/docs/inspector
    ws://127.0.0.1:9229/166e272e-7a30-4d09-97ce-f1c012b43c34
    
    $ node --inspect=localhost:3000 -p 'inspector.url()'
    Debugger listening on ws://localhost:3000/51cf8d0e-3c36-4c59-8efd-54519839e56a
    For help, see: https://nodejs.org/en/docs/inspector
    ws://localhost:3000/51cf8d0e-3c36-4c59-8efd-54519839e56a
    
    $ node -p 'inspector.url()'
    undefined copy

#### `inspector.waitForDebugger()`#

Added in: v12.7.0

Blocks until a client (existing or connected later) has sent
`Runtime.runIfWaitingForDebugger` command.

An exception will be thrown if there is no active inspector.

### Integration with DevTools#

The `node:inspector` module provides an API for integrating with devtools that
support Chrome DevTools Protocol. DevTools frontends connected to a running
Node.js instance can capture protocol events emitted from the instance and
display them accordingly to facilitate debugging. The following methods
broadcast a protocol event to all connected frontends. The `params` passed to
the methods can be optional, depending on the protocol.

    
    
    // The `Network.requestWillBeSent` event will be fired.
    inspector.Network.requestWillBeSent({
      requestId: 'request-id-1',
      timestamp: Date.now() / 1000,
      wallTime: Date.now(),
      request: {
        url: 'https://nodejs.org/en',
        method: 'GET',
      },
    }); copy

#### `inspector.Network.requestWillBeSent([params])`#

Added in: v22.6.0, v20.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `params` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

This feature is only available with the `--experimental-network-inspection`
flag enabled.

Broadcasts the `Network.requestWillBeSent` event to connected frontends. This
event indicates that the application is about to send an HTTP request.

#### `inspector.Network.responseReceived([params])`#

Added in: v22.6.0, v20.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `params` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

This feature is only available with the `--experimental-network-inspection`
flag enabled.

Broadcasts the `Network.responseReceived` event to connected frontends. This
event indicates that HTTP response is available.

#### `inspector.Network.loadingFinished([params])`#

Added in: v22.6.0, v20.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `params` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

This feature is only available with the `--experimental-network-inspection`
flag enabled.

Broadcasts the `Network.loadingFinished` event to connected frontends. This
event indicates that HTTP request has finished loading.

#### `inspector.Network.loadingFailed([params])`#

Added in: v22.7.0, v20.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `params` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

This feature is only available with the `--experimental-network-inspection`
flag enabled.

Broadcasts the `Network.loadingFailed` event to connected frontends. This
event indicates that HTTP request has failed to load.

### Support of breakpoints#

The Chrome DevTools Protocol [`Debugger`
domain](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol/v8/Debugger) allows
an `inspector.Session` to attach to a program and set breakpoints to step
through the codes.

However, setting breakpoints with a same-thread `inspector.Session`, which is
connected by `session.connect()`, should be avoided as the program being
attached and paused is exactly the debugger itself. Instead, try connect to
the main thread by `session.connectToMainThread()` and set breakpoints in a
worker thread, or connect with a [Debugger](debugger.html) program over
WebSocket connection.

## Internationalization support#

Node.js has many features that make it easier to write internationalized
programs. Some of them are:

  * Locale-sensitive or Unicode-aware functions in the [ECMAScript Language Specification](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/): 
    * [`String.prototype.normalize()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/normalize)
    * [`String.prototype.toLowerCase()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/toLowerCase)
    * [`String.prototype.toUpperCase()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/toUpperCase)
  * All functionality described in the [ECMAScript Internationalization API Specification](https://tc39.github.io/ecma402/) (aka ECMA-402): 
    * [`Intl`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl) object
    * Locale-sensitive methods like [`String.prototype.localeCompare()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/localeCompare) and [`Date.prototype.toLocaleString()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date/toLocaleString)
  * The WHATWG URL parser's [internationalized domain names](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internationalized_domain_name) (IDNs) support
  * `require('node:buffer').transcode()`
  * More accurate REPL line editing
  * `require('node:util').TextDecoder`
  * [`RegExp` Unicode Property Escapes](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-regexp-unicode-property-escapes)

Node.js and the underlying V8 engine use [International Components for Unicode
(ICU)](http://site.icu-project.org/) to implement these features in native
C/C++ code. The full ICU data set is provided by Node.js by default. However,
due to the size of the ICU data file, several options are provided for
customizing the ICU data set either when building or running Node.js.

### Options for building Node.js#

To control how ICU is used in Node.js, four `configure` options are available
during compilation. Additional details on how to compile Node.js are
documented in
[BUILDING.md](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/HEAD/BUILDING.md).

  * `--with-intl=none`/`--without-intl`
  * `--with-intl=system-icu`
  * `--with-intl=small-icu`
  * `--with-intl=full-icu` (default)

An overview of available Node.js and JavaScript features for each `configure`
option:

Feature| `none`| `system-icu`| `small-icu`| `full-icu`  
---|---|---|---|---  
[`String.prototype.normalize()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/normalize)| none
(function is no-op)| full| full| full  
`String.prototype.to*Case()`| full| full| full| full  
[`Intl`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Intl)| none (object does not
exist)| partial/full (depends on OS)| partial (English-only)| full  
[`String.prototype.localeCompare()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/localeCompare)| partial
(not locale-aware)| full| full| full  
`String.prototype.toLocale*Case()`| partial (not locale-aware)| full| full|
full  
[`Number.prototype.toLocaleString()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number/toLocaleString)|
partial (not locale-aware)| partial/full (depends on OS)| partial (English-
only)| full  
`Date.prototype.toLocale*String()`| partial (not locale-aware)| partial/full
(depends on OS)| partial (English-only)| full  
Legacy URL Parser| partial (no IDN support)| full| full| full  
WHATWG URL Parser| partial (no IDN support)| full| full| full  
`require('node:buffer').transcode()`| none (function does not exist)| full|
full| full  
REPL| partial (inaccurate line editing)| full| full| full  
`require('node:util').TextDecoder`| partial (basic encodings support)|
partial/full (depends on OS)| partial (Unicode-only)| full  
[`RegExp` Unicode Property Escapes](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-regexp-
unicode-property-escapes)| none (invalid `RegExp` error)| full| full| full  
  
The "(not locale-aware)" designation denotes that the function carries out its
operation just like the non-`Locale` version of the function, if one exists.
For example, under `none` mode, `Date.prototype.toLocaleString()`'s operation
is identical to that of `Date.prototype.toString()`.

#### Disable all internationalization features (`none`)#

If this option is chosen, ICU is disabled and most internationalization
features mentioned above will be **unavailable** in the resulting `node`
binary.

#### Build with a pre-installed ICU (`system-icu`)#

Node.js can link against an ICU build already installed on the system. In
fact, most Linux distributions already come with ICU installed, and this
option would make it possible to reuse the same set of data used by other
components in the OS.

Functionalities that only require the ICU library itself, such as
[`String.prototype.normalize()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/normalize) and the
WHATWG URL parser, are fully supported under `system-icu`. Features that
require ICU locale data in addition, such as
[`Intl.DateTimeFormat`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DateTimeFormat) _may_ be fully
or partially supported, depending on the completeness of the ICU data
installed on the system.

#### Embed a limited set of ICU data (`small-icu`)#

This option makes the resulting binary link against the ICU library
statically, and includes a subset of ICU data (typically only the English
locale) within the `node` executable.

Functionalities that only require the ICU library itself, such as
[`String.prototype.normalize()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/normalize) and the
WHATWG URL parser, are fully supported under `small-icu`. Features that
require ICU locale data in addition, such as
[`Intl.DateTimeFormat`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DateTimeFormat), generally
only work with the English locale:

    
    
    const january = new Date(9e8);
    const english = new Intl.DateTimeFormat('en', { month: 'long' });
    const spanish = new Intl.DateTimeFormat('es', { month: 'long' });
    
    console.log(english.format(january));
    // Prints "January"
    console.log(spanish.format(january));
    // Prints either "M01" or "January" on small-icu, depending on the user’s default locale
    // Should print "enero" copy

This mode provides a balance between features and binary size.

##### Providing ICU data at runtime#

If the `small-icu` option is used, one can still provide additional locale
data at runtime so that the JS methods would work for all ICU locales.
Assuming the data file is stored at `/runtime/directory/with/dat/file`, it can
be made available to ICU through either:

  * The `--with-icu-default-data-dir` configure option:
    
        ./configure --with-icu-default-data-dir=/runtime/directory/with/dat/file --with-intl=small-icu copy

This only embeds the default data directory path into the binary. The actual
data file is going to be loaded at runtime from this directory path.

  * The `NODE_ICU_DATA` environment variable:
    
        env NODE_ICU_DATA=/runtime/directory/with/dat/file node copy

  * The `--icu-data-dir` CLI parameter:
    
        node --icu-data-dir=/runtime/directory/with/dat/file copy

When more than one of them is specified, the `--icu-data-dir` CLI parameter
has the highest precedence, then the `NODE_ICU_DATA` environment variable,
then the `--with-icu-default-data-dir` configure option.

ICU is able to automatically find and load a variety of data formats, but the
data must be appropriate for the ICU version, and the file correctly named.
The most common name for the data file is `icudtX[bl].dat`, where `X` denotes
the intended ICU version, and `b` or `l` indicates the system's endianness.
Node.js would fail to load if the expected data file cannot be read from the
specified directory. The name of the data file corresponding to the current
Node.js version can be computed with:

    
    
    `icudt${process.versions.icu.split('.')[0]}${os.endianness()[0].toLowerCase()}.dat`; copy

Check ["ICU Data"](http://userguide.icu-project.org/icudata) article in the
ICU User Guide for other supported formats and more details on ICU data in
general.

The [full-icu](https://www.npmjs.com/package/full-icu) npm module can greatly
simplify ICU data installation by detecting the ICU version of the running
`node` executable and downloading the appropriate data file. After installing
the module through `npm i full-icu`, the data file will be available at
`./node_modules/full-icu`. This path can be then passed either to
`NODE_ICU_DATA` or `--icu-data-dir` as shown above to enable full `Intl`
support.

#### Embed the entire ICU (`full-icu`)#

This option makes the resulting binary link against ICU statically and include
a full set of ICU data. A binary created this way has no further external
dependencies and supports all locales, but might be rather large. This is the
default behavior if no `--with-intl` flag is passed. The official binaries are
also built in this mode.

### Detecting internationalization support#

To verify that ICU is enabled at all (`system-icu`, `small-icu`, or `full-
icu`), simply checking the existence of `Intl` should suffice:

    
    
    const hasICU = typeof Intl === 'object'; copy

Alternatively, checking for `process.versions.icu`, a property defined only
when ICU is enabled, works too:

    
    
    const hasICU = typeof process.versions.icu === 'string'; copy

To check for support for a non-English locale (i.e. `full-icu` or `system-
icu`), [`Intl.DateTimeFormat`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DateTimeFormat) can be a good
distinguishing factor:

    
    
    const hasFullICU = (() => {
      try {
        const january = new Date(9e8);
        const spanish = new Intl.DateTimeFormat('es', { month: 'long' });
        return spanish.format(january) === 'enero';
      } catch (err) {
        return false;
      }
    })(); copy

For more verbose tests for `Intl` support, the following resources may be
found to be helpful:

  * [btest402](https://github.com/srl295/btest402): Generally used to check whether Node.js with `Intl` support is built correctly.
  * [Test262](https://github.com/tc39/test262/tree/HEAD/test/intl402): ECMAScript's official conformance test suite includes a section dedicated to ECMA-402.

## Modules: CommonJS modules#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

CommonJS modules are the original way to package JavaScript code for Node.js.
Node.js also supports the [ECMAScript modules](esm.html) standard used by
browsers and other JavaScript runtimes.

In Node.js, each file is treated as a separate module. For example, consider a
file named `foo.js`:

    
    
    const circle = require('./circle.js');
    console.log(`The area of a circle of radius 4 is ${circle.area(4)}`); copy

On the first line, `foo.js` loads the module `circle.js` that is in the same
directory as `foo.js`.

Here are the contents of `circle.js`:

    
    
    const { PI } = Math;
    
    exports.area = (r) => PI * r ** 2;
    
    exports.circumference = (r) => 2 * PI * r; copy

The module `circle.js` has exported the functions `area()` and
`circumference()`. Functions and objects are added to the root of a module by
specifying additional properties on the special `exports` object.

Variables local to the module will be private, because the module is wrapped
in a function by Node.js (see module wrapper). In this example, the variable
`PI` is private to `circle.js`.

The `module.exports` property can be assigned a new value (such as a function
or object).

In the following code, `bar.js` makes use of the `square` module, which
exports a Square class:

    
    
    const Square = require('./square.js');
    const mySquare = new Square(2);
    console.log(`The area of mySquare is ${mySquare.area()}`); copy

The `square` module is defined in `square.js`:

    
    
    // Assigning to exports will not modify module, must use module.exports
    module.exports = class Square {
      constructor(width) {
        this.width = width;
      }
    
      area() {
        return this.width ** 2;
      }
    }; copy

The CommonJS module system is implemented in the [`module` core
module](module.html).

### Enabling#

Node.js has two module systems: CommonJS modules and [ECMAScript
modules](esm.html).

By default, Node.js will treat the following as CommonJS modules:

  * Files with a `.cjs` extension;

  * Files with a `.js` extension when the nearest parent `package.json` file contains a top-level field `"type"` with a value of `"commonjs"`.

  * Files with a `.js` extension or without an extension, when the nearest parent `package.json` file doesn't contain a top-level field `"type"` or there is no `package.json` in any parent folder; unless the file contains syntax that errors unless it is evaluated as an ES module. Package authors should include the `"type"` field, even in packages where all sources are CommonJS. Being explicit about the `type` of the package will make things easier for build tools and loaders to determine how the files in the package should be interpreted.

  * Files with an extension that is not `.mjs`, `.cjs`, `.json`, `.node`, or `.js` (when the nearest parent `package.json` file contains a top-level field `"type"` with a value of `"module"`, those files will be recognized as CommonJS modules only if they are being included via `require()`, not when used as the command-line entry point of the program).

See Determining module system for more details.

Calling `require()` always use the CommonJS module loader. Calling `import()`
always use the ECMAScript module loader.

### Accessing the main module#

When a file is run directly from Node.js, `require.main` is set to its
`module`. That means that it is possible to determine whether a file has been
run directly by testing `require.main === module`.

For a file `foo.js`, this will be `true` if run via `node foo.js`, but `false`
if run by `require('./foo')`.

When the entry point is not a CommonJS module, `require.main` is `undefined`,
and the main module is out of reach.

### Package manager tips#

The semantics of the Node.js `require()` function were designed to be general
enough to support reasonable directory structures. Package manager programs
such as `dpkg`, `rpm`, and `npm` will hopefully find it possible to build
native packages from Node.js modules without modification.

In the following, we give a suggested directory structure that could work:

Let's say that we wanted to have the folder at `/usr/lib/node/<some-
package>/<some-version>` hold the contents of a specific version of a package.

Packages can depend on one another. In order to install package `foo`, it may
be necessary to install a specific version of package `bar`. The `bar` package
may itself have dependencies, and in some cases, these may even collide or
form cyclic dependencies.

Because Node.js looks up the `realpath` of any modules it loads (that is, it
resolves symlinks) and then looks for their dependencies in `node_modules`
folders, this situation can be resolved with the following architecture:

  * `/usr/lib/node/foo/1.2.3/`: Contents of the `foo` package, version 1.2.3.
  * `/usr/lib/node/bar/4.3.2/`: Contents of the `bar` package that `foo` depends on.
  * `/usr/lib/node/foo/1.2.3/node_modules/bar`: Symbolic link to `/usr/lib/node/bar/4.3.2/`.
  * `/usr/lib/node/bar/4.3.2/node_modules/*`: Symbolic links to the packages that `bar` depends on.

Thus, even if a cycle is encountered, or if there are dependency conflicts,
every module will be able to get a version of its dependency that it can use.

When the code in the `foo` package does `require('bar')`, it will get the
version that is symlinked into `/usr/lib/node/foo/1.2.3/node_modules/bar`.
Then, when the code in the `bar` package calls `require('quux')`, it'll get
the version that is symlinked into
`/usr/lib/node/bar/4.3.2/node_modules/quux`.

Furthermore, to make the module lookup process even more optimal, rather than
putting packages directly in `/usr/lib/node`, we could put them in
`/usr/lib/node_modules/<name>/<version>`. Then Node.js will not bother looking
for missing dependencies in `/usr/node_modules` or `/node_modules`.

In order to make modules available to the Node.js REPL, it might be useful to
also add the `/usr/lib/node_modules` folder to the `$NODE_PATH` environment
variable. Since the module lookups using `node_modules` folders are all
relative, and based on the real path of the files making the calls to
`require()`, the packages themselves can be anywhere.

### Loading ECMAScript modules using `require()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.5.0 | This feature no longer emits an experimental warning by default, though the warning can still be emitted by --trace-require-module.  
v23.0.0 | This feature is no longer behind the `--experimental-require-module` CLI flag.  
v23.0.0 | Support `'module.exports'` interop export in `require(esm)`.  
v22.0.0, v20.17.0 | Added in: v22.0.0, v20.17.0  
  
Stability: 1.2 - Release candidate

The `.mjs` extension is reserved for [ECMAScript Modules](esm.html). See
Determining module system section for more info regarding which files are
parsed as ECMAScript modules.

`require()` only supports loading ECMAScript modules that meet the following
requirements:

  * The module is fully synchronous (contains no top-level `await`); and
  * One of these conditions are met: 
    1. The file has a `.mjs` extension.
    2. The file has a `.js` extension, and the closest `package.json` contains `"type": "module"`
    3. The file has a `.js` extension, the closest `package.json` does not contain `"type": "commonjs"`, and the module contains ES module syntax.

If the ES Module being loaded meets the requirements, `require()` can load it
and return the [module namespace object](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import#module_namespace_object). In
this case it is similar to dynamic `import()` but is run synchronously and
returns the name space object directly.

With the following ES Modules:

    
    
    // distance.mjs
    export function distance(a, b) { return Math.sqrt((b.x - a.x) ** 2 + (b.y - a.y) ** 2); } copy
    
    
    // point.mjs
    export default class Point {
      constructor(x, y) { this.x = x; this.y = y; }
    } copy

A CommonJS module can load them with `require()`:

    
    
    const distance = require('./distance.mjs');
    console.log(distance);
    // [Module: null prototype] {
    //   distance: [Function: distance]
    // }
    
    const point = require('./point.mjs');
    console.log(point);
    // [Module: null prototype] {
    //   default: [class Point],
    //   __esModule: true,
    // } copy

For interoperability with existing tools that convert ES Modules into
CommonJS, which could then load real ES Modules through `require()`, the
returned namespace would contain a `__esModule: true` property if it has a
`default` export so that consuming code generated by tools can recognize the
default exports in real ES Modules. If the namespace already defines
`__esModule`, this would not be added. This property is experimental and can
change in the future. It should only be used by tools converting ES modules
into CommonJS modules, following existing ecosystem conventions. Code authored
directly in CommonJS should avoid depending on it.

When an ES Module contains both named exports and a default export, the result
returned by `require()` is the [module namespace
object](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import#module_namespace_object),
which places the default export in the `.default` property, similar to the
results returned by `import()`. To customize what should be returned by
`require(esm)` directly, the ES Module can export the desired value using the
string name `"module.exports"`.

    
    
    // point.mjs
    export default class Point {
      constructor(x, y) { this.x = x; this.y = y; }
    }
    
    // `distance` is lost to CommonJS consumers of this module, unless it's
    // added to `Point` as a static property.
    export function distance(a, b) { return Math.sqrt((b.x - a.x) ** 2 + (b.y - a.y) ** 2); }
    export { Point as 'module.exports' } copy
    
    
    const Point = require('./point.mjs');
    console.log(Point); // [class Point]
    
    // Named exports are lost when 'module.exports' is used
    const { distance } = require('./point.mjs');
    console.log(distance); // undefined copy

Notice in the example above, when the `module.exports` export name is used,
named exports will be lost to CommonJS consumers. To allow CommonJS consumers
to continue accessing named exports, the module can make sure that the default
export is an object with the named exports attached to it as properties. For
example with the example above, `distance` can be attached to the default
export, the `Point` class, as a static method.

    
    
    export function distance(a, b) { return Math.sqrt((b.x - a.x) ** 2 + (b.y - a.y) ** 2); }
    
    export default class Point {
      constructor(x, y) { this.x = x; this.y = y; }
      static distance = distance;
    }
    
    export { Point as 'module.exports' } copy
    
    
    const Point = require('./point.mjs');
    console.log(Point); // [class Point]
    
    const { distance } = require('./point.mjs');
    console.log(distance); // [Function: distance] copy

If the module being `require()`'d contains top-level `await`, or the module
graph it `import`s contains top-level `await`, `ERR_REQUIRE_ASYNC_MODULE` will
be thrown. In this case, users should load the asynchronous module using
[`import()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import).

If `--experimental-print-required-tla` is enabled, instead of throwing
`ERR_REQUIRE_ASYNC_MODULE` before evaluation, Node.js will evaluate the
module, try to locate the top-level awaits, and print their location to help
users fix them.

Support for loading ES modules using `require()` is currently experimental and
can be disabled using `--no-experimental-require-module`. To print where this
feature is used, use `--trace-require-module`.

This feature can be detected by checking if `process.features.require_module`
is `true`.

### All together#

To get the exact filename that will be loaded when `require()` is called, use
the `require.resolve()` function.

Putting together all of the above, here is the high-level algorithm in
pseudocode of what `require()` does:

    
    
    require(X) from module at path Y
    1. If X is a core module,
       a. return the core module
       b. STOP
    2. If X begins with '/'
       a. set Y to the file system root
    3. If X begins with './' or '/' or '../'
       a. LOAD_AS_FILE(Y + X)
       b. LOAD_AS_DIRECTORY(Y + X)
       c. THROW "not found"
    4. If X begins with '#'
       a. LOAD_PACKAGE_IMPORTS(X, dirname(Y))
    5. LOAD_PACKAGE_SELF(X, dirname(Y))
    6. LOAD_NODE_MODULES(X, dirname(Y))
    7. THROW "not found"
    
    MAYBE_DETECT_AND_LOAD(X)
    1. If X parses as a CommonJS module, load X as a CommonJS module. STOP.
    2. Else, if the source code of X can be parsed as ECMAScript module using
      <a href="esm.md#resolver-algorithm-specification">DETECT_MODULE_SYNTAX defined in
      the ESM resolver</a>,
      a. Load X as an ECMAScript module. STOP.
    3. THROW the SyntaxError from attempting to parse X as CommonJS in 1. STOP.
    
    LOAD_AS_FILE(X)
    1. If X is a file, load X as its file extension format. STOP
    2. If X.js is a file,
        a. Find the closest package scope SCOPE to X.
        b. If no scope was found
          1. MAYBE_DETECT_AND_LOAD(X.js)
        c. If the SCOPE/package.json contains "type" field,
          1. If the "type" field is "module", load X.js as an ECMAScript module. STOP.
          2. If the "type" field is "commonjs", load X.js as a CommonJS module. STOP.
        d. MAYBE_DETECT_AND_LOAD(X.js)
    3. If X.json is a file, load X.json to a JavaScript Object. STOP
    4. If X.node is a file, load X.node as binary addon. STOP
    
    LOAD_INDEX(X)
    1. If X/index.js is a file
        a. Find the closest package scope SCOPE to X.
        b. If no scope was found, load X/index.js as a CommonJS module. STOP.
        c. If the SCOPE/package.json contains "type" field,
          1. If the "type" field is "module", load X/index.js as an ECMAScript module. STOP.
          2. Else, load X/index.js as a CommonJS module. STOP.
    2. If X/index.json is a file, parse X/index.json to a JavaScript object. STOP
    3. If X/index.node is a file, load X/index.node as binary addon. STOP
    
    LOAD_AS_DIRECTORY(X)
    1. If X/package.json is a file,
       a. Parse X/package.json, and look for "main" field.
       b. If "main" is a falsy value, GOTO 2.
       c. let M = X + (json main field)
       d. LOAD_AS_FILE(M)
       e. LOAD_INDEX(M)
       f. LOAD_INDEX(X) DEPRECATED
       g. THROW "not found"
    2. LOAD_INDEX(X)
    
    LOAD_NODE_MODULES(X, START)
    1. let DIRS = NODE_MODULES_PATHS(START)
    2. for each DIR in DIRS:
       a. LOAD_PACKAGE_EXPORTS(X, DIR)
       b. LOAD_AS_FILE(DIR/X)
       c. LOAD_AS_DIRECTORY(DIR/X)
    
    NODE_MODULES_PATHS(START)
    1. let PARTS = path split(START)
    2. let I = count of PARTS - 1
    3. let DIRS = []
    4. while I >= 0,
       a. if PARTS[I] = "node_modules", GOTO d.
       b. DIR = path join(PARTS[0 .. I] + "node_modules")
       c. DIRS = DIR + DIRS
       d. let I = I - 1
    5. return DIRS + GLOBAL_FOLDERS
    
    LOAD_PACKAGE_IMPORTS(X, DIR)
    1. Find the closest package scope SCOPE to DIR.
    2. If no scope was found, return.
    3. If the SCOPE/package.json "imports" is null or undefined, return.
    4. If `--experimental-require-module` is enabled
      a. let CONDITIONS = ["node", "require", "module-sync"]
      b. Else, let CONDITIONS = ["node", "require"]
    5. let MATCH = PACKAGE_IMPORTS_RESOLVE(X, pathToFileURL(SCOPE),
      CONDITIONS) <a href="esm.md#resolver-algorithm-specification">defined in the ESM resolver</a>.
    6. RESOLVE_ESM_MATCH(MATCH).
    
    LOAD_PACKAGE_EXPORTS(X, DIR)
    1. Try to interpret X as a combination of NAME and SUBPATH where the name
       may have a @scope/ prefix and the subpath begins with a slash (`/`).
    2. If X does not match this pattern or DIR/NAME/package.json is not a file,
       return.
    3. Parse DIR/NAME/package.json, and look for "exports" field.
    4. If "exports" is null or undefined, return.
    5. If `--experimental-require-module` is enabled
      a. let CONDITIONS = ["node", "require", "module-sync"]
      b. Else, let CONDITIONS = ["node", "require"]
    6. let MATCH = PACKAGE_EXPORTS_RESOLVE(pathToFileURL(DIR/NAME), "." + SUBPATH,
       `package.json` "exports", CONDITIONS) <a href="esm.md#resolver-algorithm-specification">defined in the ESM resolver</a>.
    7. RESOLVE_ESM_MATCH(MATCH)
    
    LOAD_PACKAGE_SELF(X, DIR)
    1. Find the closest package scope SCOPE to DIR.
    2. If no scope was found, return.
    3. If the SCOPE/package.json "exports" is null or undefined, return.
    4. If the SCOPE/package.json "name" is not the first segment of X, return.
    5. let MATCH = PACKAGE_EXPORTS_RESOLVE(pathToFileURL(SCOPE),
       "." + X.slice("name".length), `package.json` "exports", ["node", "require"])
       <a href="esm.md#resolver-algorithm-specification">defined in the ESM resolver</a>.
    6. RESOLVE_ESM_MATCH(MATCH)
    
    RESOLVE_ESM_MATCH(MATCH)
    1. let RESOLVED_PATH = fileURLToPath(MATCH)
    2. If the file at RESOLVED_PATH exists, load RESOLVED_PATH as its extension
       format. STOP
    3. THROW "not found" copy

### Caching#

Modules are cached after the first time they are loaded. This means (among
other things) that every call to `require('foo')` will get exactly the same
object returned, if it would resolve to the same file.

Provided `require.cache` is not modified, multiple calls to `require('foo')`
will not cause the module code to be executed multiple times. This is an
important feature. With it, "partially done" objects can be returned, thus
allowing transitive dependencies to be loaded even when they would cause
cycles.

To have a module execute code multiple times, export a function, and call that
function.

#### Module caching caveats#

Modules are cached based on their resolved filename. Since modules may resolve
to a different filename based on the location of the calling module (loading
from `node_modules` folders), it is not a _guarantee_ that `require('foo')`
will always return the exact same object, if it would resolve to different
files.

Additionally, on case-insensitive file systems or operating systems, different
resolved filenames can point to the same file, but the cache will still treat
them as different modules and will reload the file multiple times. For
example, `require('./foo')` and `require('./FOO')` return two different
objects, irrespective of whether or not `./foo` and `./FOO` are the same file.

### Built-in modules#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0, v14.18.0 | Added `node:` import support to `require(...)`.  
  
Node.js has several modules compiled into the binary. These modules are
described in greater detail elsewhere in this documentation.

The built-in modules are defined within the Node.js source and are located in
the `lib/` folder.

Built-in modules can be identified using the `node:` prefix, in which case it
bypasses the `require` cache. For instance, `require('node:http')` will always
return the built in HTTP module, even if there is `require.cache` entry by
that name.

Some built-in modules are always preferentially loaded if their identifier is
passed to `require()`. For instance, `require('http')` will always return the
built-in HTTP module, even if there is a file by that name.

The list of all the built-in modules can be retrieved from
`module.builtinModules`. The modules being all listed without the `node:`
prefix, except those that mandate such prefix (as explained in the next
section).

#### Built-in modules with mandatory `node:` prefix#

When being loaded by `require()`, some built-in modules must be requested with
the `node:` prefix. This requirement exists to prevent newly introduced built-
in modules from having a conflict with user land packages that already have
taken the name. Currently the built-in modules that requires the `node:`
prefix are:

  * `node:sea`
  * [`node:sqlite`](sqlite.html)
  * [`node:test`](test.html)
  * `node:test/reporters`

The list of these modules is exposed in `module.builtinModules`, including the
prefix.

### Cycles#

When there are circular `require()` calls, a module might not have finished
executing when it is returned.

Consider this situation:

`a.js`:

    
    
    console.log('a starting');
    exports.done = false;
    const b = require('./b.js');
    console.log('in a, b.done = %j', b.done);
    exports.done = true;
    console.log('a done'); copy

`b.js`:

    
    
    console.log('b starting');
    exports.done = false;
    const a = require('./a.js');
    console.log('in b, a.done = %j', a.done);
    exports.done = true;
    console.log('b done'); copy

`main.js`:

    
    
    console.log('main starting');
    const a = require('./a.js');
    const b = require('./b.js');
    console.log('in main, a.done = %j, b.done = %j', a.done, b.done); copy

When `main.js` loads `a.js`, then `a.js` in turn loads `b.js`. At that point,
`b.js` tries to load `a.js`. In order to prevent an infinite loop, an
**unfinished copy** of the `a.js` exports object is returned to the `b.js`
module. `b.js` then finishes loading, and its `exports` object is provided to
the `a.js` module.

By the time `main.js` has loaded both modules, they're both finished. The
output of this program would thus be:

    
    
    $ node main.js
    main starting
    a starting
    b starting
    in b, a.done = false
    b done
    in a, b.done = true
    a done
    in main, a.done = true, b.done = true copy

Careful planning is required to allow cyclic module dependencies to work
correctly within an application.

### File modules#

If the exact filename is not found, then Node.js will attempt to load the
required filename with the added extensions: `.js`, `.json`, and finally
`.node`. When loading a file that has a different extension (e.g. `.cjs`), its
full name must be passed to `require()`, including its file extension (e.g.
`require('./file.cjs')`).

`.json` files are parsed as JSON text files, `.node` files are interpreted as
compiled addon modules loaded with `process.dlopen()`. Files using any other
extension (or no extension at all) are parsed as JavaScript text files. Refer
to the Determining module system section to understand what parse goal will be
used.

A required module prefixed with `'/'` is an absolute path to the file. For
example, `require('/home/marco/foo.js')` will load the file at
`/home/marco/foo.js`.

A required module prefixed with `'./'` is relative to the file calling
`require()`. That is, `circle.js` must be in the same directory as `foo.js`
for `require('./circle')` to find it.

Without a leading `'/'`, `'./'`, or `'../'` to indicate a file, the module
must either be a core module or is loaded from a `node_modules` folder.

If the given path does not exist, `require()` will throw a `MODULE_NOT_FOUND`
error.

### Folders as modules#

Stability: 3 \- Legacy: Use subpath exports or subpath imports instead.

There are three ways in which a folder may be passed to `require()` as an
argument.

The first is to create a `package.json` file in the root of the folder, which
specifies a `main` module. An example `package.json` file might look like
this:

    
    
    { "name" : "some-library",
      "main" : "./lib/some-library.js" } copy

If this was in a folder at `./some-library`, then `require('./some-library')`
would attempt to load `./some-library/lib/some-library.js`.

If there is no `package.json` file present in the directory, or if the
`"main"` entry is missing or cannot be resolved, then Node.js will attempt to
load an `index.js` or `index.node` file out of that directory. For example, if
there was no `package.json` file in the previous example, then
`require('./some-library')` would attempt to load:

  * `./some-library/index.js`
  * `./some-library/index.node`

If these attempts fail, then Node.js will report the entire module as missing
with the default error:

    
    
    Error: Cannot find module 'some-library' copy

In all three above cases, an `import('./some-library')` call would result in a
`ERR_UNSUPPORTED_DIR_IMPORT` error. Using package subpath exports or subpath
imports can provide the same containment organization benefits as folders as
modules, and work for both `require` and `import`.

### Loading from `node_modules` folders#

If the module identifier passed to `require()` is not a built-in module, and
does not begin with `'/'`, `'../'`, or `'./'`, then Node.js starts at the
directory of the current module, and adds `/node_modules`, and attempts to
load the module from that location. Node.js will not append `node_modules` to
a path already ending in `node_modules`.

If it is not found there, then it moves to the parent directory, and so on,
until the root of the file system is reached.

For example, if the file at `'/home/ry/projects/foo.js'` called
`require('bar.js')`, then Node.js would look in the following locations, in
this order:

  * `/home/ry/projects/node_modules/bar.js`
  * `/home/ry/node_modules/bar.js`
  * `/home/node_modules/bar.js`
  * `/node_modules/bar.js`

This allows programs to localize their dependencies, so that they do not
clash.

It is possible to require specific files or sub modules distributed with a
module by including a path suffix after the module name. For instance
`require('example-module/path/to/file')` would resolve `path/to/file` relative
to where `example-module` is located. The suffixed path follows the same
module resolution semantics.

### Loading from the global folders#

If the `NODE_PATH` environment variable is set to a colon-delimited list of
absolute paths, then Node.js will search those paths for modules if they are
not found elsewhere.

On Windows, `NODE_PATH` is delimited by semicolons (`;`) instead of colons.

`NODE_PATH` was originally created to support loading modules from varying
paths before the current module resolution algorithm was defined.

`NODE_PATH` is still supported, but is less necessary now that the Node.js
ecosystem has settled on a convention for locating dependent modules.
Sometimes deployments that rely on `NODE_PATH` show surprising behavior when
people are unaware that `NODE_PATH` must be set. Sometimes a module's
dependencies change, causing a different version (or even a different module)
to be loaded as the `NODE_PATH` is searched.

Additionally, Node.js will search in the following list of GLOBAL_FOLDERS:

  * 1: `$HOME/.node_modules`
  * 2: `$HOME/.node_libraries`
  * 3: `$PREFIX/lib/node`

Where `$HOME` is the user's home directory, and `$PREFIX` is the Node.js
configured `node_prefix`.

These are mostly for historic reasons.

It is strongly encouraged to place dependencies in the local `node_modules`
folder. These will be loaded faster, and more reliably.

### The module wrapper#

Before a module's code is executed, Node.js will wrap it with a function
wrapper that looks like the following:

    
    
    (function(exports, require, module, __filename, __dirname) {
    // Module code actually lives in here
    }); copy

By doing this, Node.js achieves a few things:

  * It keeps top-level variables (defined with `var`, `const`, or `let`) scoped to the module rather than the global object.
  * It helps to provide some global-looking variables that are actually specific to the module, such as: 
    * The `module` and `exports` objects that the implementor can use to export values from the module.
    * The convenience variables `__filename` and `__dirname`, containing the module's absolute filename and directory path.

### The module scope#

#### `__dirname`#

Added in: v0.1.27

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The directory name of the current module. This is the same as the
`path.dirname()` of the `__filename`.

Example: running `node example.js` from `/Users/mjr`

    
    
    console.log(__dirname);
    // Prints: /Users/mjr
    console.log(path.dirname(__filename));
    // Prints: /Users/mjr copy

#### `__filename`#

Added in: v0.0.1

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The file name of the current module. This is the current module file's
absolute path with symlinks resolved.

For a main program this is not necessarily the same as the file name used in
the command line.

See `__dirname` for the directory name of the current module.

Examples:

Running `node example.js` from `/Users/mjr`

    
    
    console.log(__filename);
    // Prints: /Users/mjr/example.js
    console.log(__dirname);
    // Prints: /Users/mjr copy

Given two modules: `a` and `b`, where `b` is a dependency of `a` and there is
a directory structure of:

  * `/Users/mjr/app/a.js`
  * `/Users/mjr/app/node_modules/b/b.js`

References to `__filename` within `b.js` will return
`/Users/mjr/app/node_modules/b/b.js` while references to `__filename` within
`a.js` will return `/Users/mjr/app/a.js`.

#### `exports`#

Added in: v0.1.12

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

A reference to the `module.exports` that is shorter to type. See the section
about the exports shortcut for details on when to use `exports` and when to
use `module.exports`.

#### `module`#

Added in: v0.1.16

  * <module>

A reference to the current module, see the section about the `module` object.
In particular, `module.exports` is used for defining what a module exports and
makes available through `require()`.

#### `require(id)`#

Added in: v0.1.13

  * `id` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) module name or path
  * Returns: [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) exported module content

Used to import modules, `JSON`, and local files. Modules can be imported from
`node_modules`. Local modules and JSON files can be imported using a relative
path (e.g. `./`, `./foo`, `./bar/baz`, `../foo`) that will be resolved against
the directory named by `__dirname` (if defined) or the current working
directory. The relative paths of POSIX style are resolved in an OS independent
fashion, meaning that the examples above will work on Windows in the same way
they would on Unix systems.

    
    
    // Importing a local module with a path relative to the `__dirname` or current
    // working directory. (On Windows, this would resolve to .\path\myLocalModule.)
    const myLocalModule = require('./path/myLocalModule');
    
    // Importing a JSON file:
    const jsonData = require('./path/filename.json');
    
    // Importing a module from node_modules or Node.js built-in module:
    const crypto = require('node:crypto'); copy

##### `require.cache`#

Added in: v0.3.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Modules are cached in this object when they are required. By deleting a key
value from this object, the next `require` will reload the module. This does
not apply to [native addons](addons.html), for which reloading will result in
an error.

Adding or replacing entries is also possible. This cache is checked before
built-in modules and if a name matching a built-in module is added to the
cache, only `node:`-prefixed require calls are going to receive the built-in
module. Use with care!

    
    
    const assert = require('node:assert');
    const realFs = require('node:fs');
    
    const fakeFs = {};
    require.cache.fs = { exports: fakeFs };
    
    assert.strictEqual(require('fs'), fakeFs);
    assert.strictEqual(require('node:fs'), realFs); copy

##### `require.extensions`#

Added in: v0.3.0Deprecated since: v0.10.6

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Instruct `require` on how to handle certain file extensions.

Process files with the extension `.sjs` as `.js`:

    
    
    require.extensions['.sjs'] = require.extensions['.js']; copy

**Deprecated.** In the past, this list has been used to load non-JavaScript
modules into Node.js by compiling them on-demand. However, in practice, there
are much better ways to do this, such as loading modules via some other
Node.js program, or compiling them to JavaScript ahead of time.

Avoid using `require.extensions`. Use could cause subtle bugs and resolving
the extensions gets slower with each registered extension.

##### `require.main`#

Added in: v0.1.17

  * <module> | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

The `Module` object representing the entry script loaded when the Node.js
process launched, or `undefined` if the entry point of the program is not a
CommonJS module. See "Accessing the main module".

In `entry.js` script:

    
    
    console.log(require.main); copy
    
    
    node entry.js copy
    
    
    Module {
      id: '.',
      path: '/absolute/path/to',
      exports: {},
      filename: '/absolute/path/to/entry.js',
      loaded: false,
      children: [],
      paths:
       [ '/absolute/path/to/node_modules',
         '/absolute/path/node_modules',
         '/absolute/node_modules',
         '/node_modules' ] } copy

##### `require.resolve(request[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.9.0 | The `paths` option is now supported.  
v0.3.0 | Added in: v0.3.0  
  
  * `request` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The module path to resolve.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `paths` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Paths to resolve module location from. If present, these paths are used instead of the default resolution paths, with the exception of GLOBAL_FOLDERS like `$HOME/.node_modules`, which are always included. Each of these paths is used as a starting point for the module resolution algorithm, meaning that the `node_modules` hierarchy is checked from this location.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Use the internal `require()` machinery to look up the location of a module,
but rather than loading the module, just return the resolved filename.

If the module can not be found, a `MODULE_NOT_FOUND` error is thrown.

###### `require.resolve.paths(request)`#

Added in: v8.9.0

  * `request` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The module path whose lookup paths are being retrieved.
  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type)

Returns an array containing the paths searched during resolution of `request`
or `null` if the `request` string references a core module, for example `http`
or `fs`.

### The `module` object#

Added in: v0.1.16

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

In each module, the `module` free variable is a reference to the object
representing the current module. For convenience, `module.exports` is also
accessible via the `exports` module-global. `module` is not actually a global
but rather local to each module.

#### `module.children`#

Added in: v0.1.16

  * <module[]>

The module objects required for the first time by this one.

#### `module.exports`#

Added in: v0.1.16

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The `module.exports` object is created by the `Module` system. Sometimes this
is not acceptable; many want their module to be an instance of some class. To
do this, assign the desired export object to `module.exports`. Assigning the
desired object to `exports` will simply rebind the local `exports` variable,
which is probably not what is desired.

For example, suppose we were making a module called `a.js`:

    
    
    const EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    
    module.exports = new EventEmitter();
    
    // Do some work, and after some time emit
    // the 'ready' event from the module itself.
    setTimeout(() => {
      module.exports.emit('ready');
    }, 1000); copy

Then in another file we could do:

    
    
    const a = require('./a');
    a.on('ready', () => {
      console.log('module "a" is ready');
    }); copy

Assignment to `module.exports` must be done immediately. It cannot be done in
any callbacks. This does not work:

`x.js`:

    
    
    setTimeout(() => {
      module.exports = { a: 'hello' };
    }, 0); copy

`y.js`:

    
    
    const x = require('./x');
    console.log(x.a); copy

##### `exports` shortcut#

Added in: v0.1.16

The `exports` variable is available within a module's file-level scope, and is
assigned the value of `module.exports` before the module is evaluated.

It allows a shortcut, so that `module.exports.f = ...` can be written more
succinctly as `exports.f = ...`. However, be aware that like any variable, if
a new value is assigned to `exports`, it is no longer bound to
`module.exports`:

    
    
    module.exports.hello = true; // Exported from require of module
    exports = { hello: false };  // Not exported, only available in the module copy

When the `module.exports` property is being completely replaced by a new
object, it is common to also reassign `exports`:

    
    
    module.exports = exports = function Constructor() {
      // ... etc.
    }; copy

To illustrate the behavior, imagine this hypothetical implementation of
`require()`, which is quite similar to what is actually done by `require()`:

    
    
    function require(/* ... */) {
      const module = { exports: {} };
      ((module, exports) => {
        // Module code here. In this example, define a function.
        function someFunc() {}
        exports = someFunc;
        // At this point, exports is no longer a shortcut to module.exports, and
        // this module will still export an empty default object.
        module.exports = someFunc;
        // At this point, the module will now export someFunc, instead of the
        // default object.
      })(module, module.exports);
      return module.exports;
    } copy

#### `module.filename`#

Added in: v0.1.16

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The fully resolved filename of the module.

#### `module.id`#

Added in: v0.1.16

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The identifier for the module. Typically this is the fully resolved filename.

#### `module.isPreloading`#

Added in: v15.4.0, v14.17.0

  * Type: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the module is running during the Node.js preload phase.

#### `module.loaded`#

Added in: v0.1.16

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Whether or not the module is done loading, or is in the process of loading.

#### `module.parent`#

Added in: v0.1.16Deprecated since: v14.6.0, v12.19.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Please use `require.main` and `module.children`
instead.

  * <module> | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

The module that first required this one, or `null` if the current module is
the entry point of the current process, or `undefined` if the module was
loaded by something that is not a CommonJS module (E.G.: REPL or `import`).

#### `module.path`#

Added in: v11.14.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The directory name of the module. This is usually the same as the
`path.dirname()` of the `module.id`.

#### `module.paths`#

Added in: v0.4.0

  * [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The search paths for the module.

#### `module.require(id)`#

Added in: v0.5.1

  * `id` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) exported module content

The `module.require()` method provides a way to load a module as if
`require()` was called from the original module.

In order to do this, it is necessary to get a reference to the `module`
object. Since `require()` returns the `module.exports`, and the `module` is
typically _only_ available within a specific module's code, it must be
explicitly exported in order to be used.

### The `Module` object#

This section was moved to Modules: `module` core module.

  * [`module.builtinModules`](module.html#modulebuiltinmodules)
  * [`module.createRequire(filename)`](module.html#modulecreaterequirefilename)
  * [`module.syncBuiltinESMExports()`](module.html#modulesyncbuiltinesmexports)

### Source map v3 support#

This section was moved to Modules: `module` core module.

  * [`module.findSourceMap(path)`](module.html#modulefindsourcemappath)
  * [Class: `module.SourceMap`](module.html#class-modulesourcemap)
    * [`new SourceMap(payload)`](module.html#new-sourcemappayload--linelengths-)
    * [`sourceMap.payload`](module.html#sourcemappayload)
    * [`sourceMap.findEntry(lineNumber, columnNumber)`](module.html#sourcemapfindentrylineoffset-columnoffset)

## Modules: ECMAScript modules#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.1.0 | Import attributes are no longer experimental.  
v22.0.0 | Drop support for import assertions.  
v21.0.0, v20.10.0, v18.20.0 | Add experimental support for import attributes.  
v20.0.0, v18.19.0 | Module customization hooks are executed off the main thread.  
v18.6.0, v16.17.0 | Add support for chaining module customization hooks.  
v17.1.0, v16.14.0 | Add experimental support for import assertions.  
v17.0.0, v16.12.0 | Consolidate customization hooks, removed `getFormat`, `getSource`, `transformSource`, and `getGlobalPreloadCode` hooks added `load` and `globalPreload` hooks allowed returning `format` from either `resolve` or `load` hooks.  
v14.8.0 | Unflag Top-Level Await.  
v15.3.0, v14.17.0, v12.22.0 | Stabilize modules implementation.  
v14.13.0, v12.20.0 | Support for detection of CommonJS named exports.  
v14.0.0, v13.14.0, v12.20.0 | Remove experimental modules warning.  
v13.2.0, v12.17.0 | Loading ECMAScript modules no longer requires a command-line flag.  
v12.0.0 | Add support for ES modules using `.js` file extension via `package.json` `"type"` field.  
v8.5.0 | Added in: v8.5.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

### Introduction#

ECMAScript modules are [the official standard
format](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-modules) to package JavaScript
code for reuse. Modules are defined using a variety of
[`import`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import) and
[`export`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/export) statements.

The following example of an ES module exports a function:

    
    
    // addTwo.mjs
    function addTwo(num) {
      return num + 2;
    }
    
    export { addTwo }; copy

The following example of an ES module imports the function from `addTwo.mjs`:

    
    
    // app.mjs
    import { addTwo } from './addTwo.mjs';
    
    // Prints: 6
    console.log(addTwo(4)); copy

Node.js fully supports ECMAScript modules as they are currently specified and
provides interoperability between them and its original module format,
[CommonJS](modules.html).

______

### Enabling#

Node.js has two module systems: [CommonJS](modules.html) modules and
ECMAScript modules.

Authors can tell Node.js to interpret JavaScript as an ES module via the
`.mjs` file extension, the `package.json` `"type"` field with a value
`"module"`, or the `--input-type` flag with a value of `"module"`. These are
explicit markers of code being intended to run as an ES module.

Inversely, authors can explicitly tell Node.js to interpret JavaScript as
CommonJS via the `.cjs` file extension, the `package.json` `"type"` field with
a value `"commonjs"`, or the `--input-type` flag with a value of `"commonjs"`.

When code lacks explicit markers for either module system, Node.js will
inspect the source code of a module to look for ES module syntax. If such
syntax is found, Node.js will run the code as an ES module; otherwise it will
run the module as CommonJS. See Determining module system for more details.

____________________________

### Packages#

This section was moved to [Modules: Packages](packages.html).

### `import` Specifiers#

#### Terminology#

The _specifier_ of an `import` statement is the string after the `from`
keyword, e.g. `'node:path'` in `import { sep } from 'node:path'`. Specifiers
are also used in `export from` statements, and as the argument to an
`import()` expression.

There are three types of specifiers:

  * _Relative specifiers_ like `'./startup.js'` or `'../config.mjs'`. They refer to a path relative to the location of the importing file. _The file extension is always necessary for these._

  * _Bare specifiers_ like `'some-package'` or `'some-package/shuffle'`. They can refer to the main entry point of a package by the package name, or a specific feature module within a package prefixed by the package name as per the examples respectively. _Including the file extension is only necessary for packages without an`"exports"` field._

  * _Absolute specifiers_ like `'file:///opt/nodejs/config.js'`. They refer directly and explicitly to a full path.

Bare specifier resolutions are handled by the Node.js module resolution and
loading algorithm. All other specifier resolutions are always only resolved
with the standard relative [URL](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/) resolution
semantics.

Like in CommonJS, module files within packages can be accessed by appending a
path to the package name unless the package's `package.json` contains an
`"exports"` field, in which case files within packages can only be accessed
via the paths defined in `"exports"`.

For details on these package resolution rules that apply to bare specifiers in
the Node.js module resolution, see the [packages
documentation](packages.html).

#### Mandatory file extensions#

A file extension must be provided when using the `import` keyword to resolve
relative or absolute specifiers. Directory indexes (e.g.
`'./startup/index.js'`) must also be fully specified.

This behavior matches how `import` behaves in browser environments, assuming a
typically configured server.

#### URLs#

ES modules are resolved and cached as URLs. This means that special characters
must be percent-encoded, such as `#` with `%23` and `?` with `%3F`.

`file:`, `node:`, and `data:` URL schemes are supported. A specifier like
`'https://example.com/app.js'` is not supported natively in Node.js unless
using a custom HTTPS loader.

##### `file:` URLs#

Modules are loaded multiple times if the `import` specifier used to resolve
them has a different query or fragment.

    
    
    import './foo.mjs?query=1'; // loads ./foo.mjs with query of "?query=1"
    import './foo.mjs?query=2'; // loads ./foo.mjs with query of "?query=2" copy

The volume root may be referenced via `/`, `//`, or `file:///`. Given the
differences between [URL](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/) and path resolution
(such as percent encoding details), it is recommended to use url.pathToFileURL
when importing a path.

##### `data:` imports#

Added in: v12.10.0

[`data:` URLs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/Data_URIs) are supported for importing with
the following MIME types:

  * `text/javascript` for ES modules
  * `application/json` for JSON
  * `application/wasm` for Wasm

    
    
    import 'data:text/javascript,console.log("hello!");';
    import _ from 'data:application/json,"world!"' with { type: 'json' }; copy

`data:` URLs only resolve bare specifiers for builtin modules and absolute
specifiers. Resolving relative specifiers does not work because `data:` is not
a [special scheme](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#special-scheme). For example,
attempting to load `./foo` from `data:text/javascript,import "./foo";` fails
to resolve because there is no concept of relative resolution for `data:`
URLs.

##### `node:` imports#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0, v14.18.0 | Added `node:` import support to `require(...)`.  
v14.13.1, v12.20.0 | Added in: v14.13.1, v12.20.0  
  
`node:` URLs are supported as an alternative means to load Node.js builtin
modules. This URL scheme allows for builtin modules to be referenced by valid
absolute URL strings.

    
    
    import fs from 'node:fs/promises'; copy

### Import attributes#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0, v20.10.0, v18.20.0 | Switch from Import Assertions to Import Attributes.  
v17.1.0, v16.14.0 | Added in: v17.1.0, v16.14.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

[Import attributes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/import/with) are an inline syntax
for module import statements to pass on more information alongside the module
specifier.

    
    
    import fooData from './foo.json' with { type: 'json' };
    
    const { default: barData } =
      await import('./bar.json', { with: { type: 'json' } }); copy

Node.js only supports the `type` attribute, for which it supports the
following values:

Attribute `type`| Needed for  
---|---  
`'json'`| JSON modules  
  
The `type: 'json'` attribute is mandatory when importing JSON modules.

### Built-in modules#

Built-in modules provide named exports of their public API. A default export
is also provided which is the value of the CommonJS exports. The default
export can be used for, among other things, modifying the named exports. Named
exports of built-in modules are updated only by calling
`module.syncBuiltinESMExports()`.

    
    
    import EventEmitter from 'node:events';
    const e = new EventEmitter(); copy
    
    
    import { readFile } from 'node:fs';
    readFile('./foo.txt', (err, source) => {
      if (err) {
        console.error(err);
      } else {
        console.log(source);
      }
    }); copy
    
    
    import fs, { readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    import { syncBuiltinESMExports } from 'node:module';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    fs.readFileSync = () => Buffer.from('Hello, ESM');
    syncBuiltinESMExports();
    
    fs.readFileSync === readFileSync; copy

### `import()` expressions#

[Dynamic `import()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import) is supported in both
CommonJS and ES modules. In CommonJS modules it can be used to load ES
modules.

### `import.meta`#

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The `import.meta` meta property is an `Object` that contains the following
properties. It is only supported in ES modules.

#### `import.meta.dirname`#

Added in: v21.2.0, v20.11.0

Stability: 1.2 - Release candidate

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The directory name of the current module. This is the same as the `path.dirname()` of the `import.meta.filename`.

> **Caveat** : only present on `file:` modules.

#### `import.meta.filename`#

Added in: v21.2.0, v20.11.0

Stability: 1.2 - Release candidate

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The full absolute path and filename of the current module, with symlinks resolved.
  * This is the same as the `url.fileURLToPath()` of the `import.meta.url`.

> **Caveat** only local modules support this property. Modules not using the
> `file:` protocol will not provide it.

#### `import.meta.url`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The absolute `file:` URL of the module.

This is defined exactly the same as it is in browsers providing the URL of the
current module file.

This enables useful patterns such as relative file loading:

    
    
    import { readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    const buffer = readFileSync(new URL('./data.proto', import.meta.url)); copy

#### `import.meta.resolve(specifier)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.6.0, v18.19.0 | No longer behind `--experimental-import-meta-resolve` CLI flag, except for the non-standard `parentURL` parameter.  
v20.6.0, v18.19.0 | This API no longer throws when targeting `file:` URLs that do not map to an existing file on the local FS.  
v20.0.0, v18.19.0 | This API now returns a string synchronously instead of a Promise.  
v16.2.0, v14.18.0 | Add support for WHATWG `URL` object to `parentURL` parameter.  
v13.9.0, v12.16.2 | Added in: v13.9.0, v12.16.2  
  
Stability: 1.2 - Release candidate

  * `specifier` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The module specifier to resolve relative to the current module.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The absolute URL string that the specifier would resolve to.

[`import.meta.resolve`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import.meta/resolve) is a module-
relative resolution function scoped to each module, returning the URL string.

    
    
    const dependencyAsset = import.meta.resolve('component-lib/asset.css');
    // file:///app/node_modules/component-lib/asset.css
    import.meta.resolve('./dep.js');
    // file:///app/dep.js copy

All features of the Node.js module resolution are supported. Dependency
resolutions are subject to the permitted exports resolutions within the
package.

**Caveats** :

  * This can result in synchronous file-system operations, which can impact performance similarly to `require.resolve`.
  * This feature is not available within custom loaders (it would create a deadlock).

**Non-standard API** :

When using the `--experimental-import-meta-resolve` flag, that function
accepts a second argument:

  * `parent` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> An optional absolute parent module URL to resolve from. **Default:** `import.meta.url`

### Interoperability with CommonJS#

#### `import` statements#

An `import` statement can reference an ES module or a CommonJS module.
`import` statements are permitted only in ES modules, but dynamic `import()`
expressions are supported in CommonJS for loading ES modules.

When importing CommonJS modules, the `module.exports` object is provided as
the default export. Named exports may be available, provided by static
analysis as a convenience for better ecosystem compatibility.

#### `require`#

The CommonJS module `require` currently only supports loading synchronous ES
modules (that is, ES modules that do not use top-level `await`).

See Loading ECMAScript modules using `require()` for details.

#### CommonJS Namespaces#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | Added `'module.exports'` export marker to CJS namespaces.  
v14.13.0 | Added in: v14.13.0  
  
CommonJS modules consist of a `module.exports` object which can be of any
type.

To support this, when importing CommonJS from an ECMAScript module, a
namespace wrapper for the CommonJS module is constructed, which always
provides a `default` export key pointing to the CommonJS `module.exports`
value.

In addition, a heuristic static analysis is performed against the source text
of the CommonJS module to get a best-effort static list of exports to provide
on the namespace from values on `module.exports`. This is necessary since
these namespaces must be constructed prior to the evaluation of the CJS
module.

These CommonJS namespace objects also provide the `default` export as a
`'module.exports'` named export, in order to unambiguously indicate that their
representation in CommonJS uses this value, and not the namespace value. This
mirrors the semantics of the handling of the `'module.exports'` export name in
`require(esm)` interop support.

When importing a CommonJS module, it can be reliably imported using the ES
module default import or its corresponding sugar syntax:

    
    
    import { default as cjs } from 'cjs';
    // Identical to the above
    import cjsSugar from 'cjs';
    
    console.log(cjs);
    console.log(cjs === cjsSugar);
    // Prints:
    //   <module.exports>
    //   true copy

This Module Namespace Exotic Object can be directly observed either when using
`import * as m from 'cjs'` or a dynamic import:

    
    
    import * as m from 'cjs';
    console.log(m);
    console.log(m === await import('cjs'));
    // Prints:
    //   [Module] { default: <module.exports>, 'module.exports': <module.exports> }
    //   true copy

For better compatibility with existing usage in the JS ecosystem, Node.js in
addition attempts to determine the CommonJS named exports of every imported
CommonJS module to provide them as separate ES module exports using a static
analysis process.

For example, consider a CommonJS module written:

    
    
    // cjs.cjs
    exports.name = 'exported'; copy

The preceding module supports named imports in ES modules:

    
    
    import { name } from './cjs.cjs';
    console.log(name);
    // Prints: 'exported'
    
    import cjs from './cjs.cjs';
    console.log(cjs);
    // Prints: { name: 'exported' }
    
    import * as m from './cjs.cjs';
    console.log(m);
    // Prints:
    //   [Module] {
    //     default: { name: 'exported' },
    //     'module.exports': { name: 'exported' },
    //     name: 'exported'
    //   } copy

As can be seen from the last example of the Module Namespace Exotic Object
being logged, the `name` export is copied off of the `module.exports` object
and set directly on the ES module namespace when the module is imported.

Live binding updates or new exports added to `module.exports` are not detected
for these named exports.

The detection of named exports is based on common syntax patterns but does not
always correctly detect named exports. In these cases, using the default
import form described above can be a better option.

Named exports detection covers many common export patterns, reexport patterns
and build tool and transpiler outputs. See [cjs-module-
lexer](https://github.com/nodejs/cjs-module-lexer/tree/2.0.0) for the exact
semantics implemented.

#### Differences between ES modules and CommonJS#

##### No `require`, `exports`, or `module.exports`#

In most cases, the ES module `import` can be used to load CommonJS modules.

If needed, a `require` function can be constructed within an ES module using
`module.createRequire()`.

##### No `__filename` or `__dirname`#

These CommonJS variables are not available in ES modules.

`__filename` and `__dirname` use cases can be replicated via
`import.meta.filename` and `import.meta.dirname`.

##### No Addon Loading#

[Addons](addons.html) are not currently supported with ES module imports.

They can instead be loaded with `module.createRequire()` or `process.dlopen`.

##### No `require.resolve`#

Relative resolution can be handled via `new URL('./local', import.meta.url)`.

For a complete `require.resolve` replacement, there is the import.meta.resolve
API.

Alternatively `module.createRequire()` can be used.

##### No `NODE_PATH`#

`NODE_PATH` is not part of resolving `import` specifiers. Please use symlinks
if this behavior is desired.

##### No `require.extensions`#

`require.extensions` is not used by `import`. Module customization hooks can
provide a replacement.

##### No `require.cache`#

`require.cache` is not used by `import` as the ES module loader has its own
separate cache.

__

### JSON modules#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.1.0 | JSON modules are no longer experimental.  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

JSON files can be referenced by `import`:

    
    
    import packageConfig from './package.json' with { type: 'json' }; copy

The `with { type: 'json' }` syntax is mandatory; see Import Attributes.

The imported JSON only exposes a `default` export. There is no support for
named exports. A cache entry is created in the CommonJS cache to avoid
duplication. The same object is returned in CommonJS if the JSON module has
already been imported from the same path.

__

### Wasm modules#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Importing WebAssembly modules is supported under the `--experimental-wasm-
modules` flag, allowing any `.wasm` files to be imported as normal modules
while also supporting their module imports.

This integration is in line with the [ES Module Integration Proposal for
WebAssembly](https://github.com/webassembly/esm-integration).

For example, an `index.mjs` containing:

    
    
    import * as M from './module.wasm';
    console.log(M); copy

executed under:

    
    
    node --experimental-wasm-modules index.mjs copy

would provide the exports interface for the instantiation of `module.wasm`.

__

### Top-level `await`#

Added in: v14.8.0

The `await` keyword may be used in the top level body of an ECMAScript module.

Assuming an `a.mjs` with

    
    
    export const five = await Promise.resolve(5); copy

And a `b.mjs` with

    
    
    import { five } from './a.mjs';
    
    console.log(five); // Logs `5` copy
    
    
    node b.mjs # works copy

If a top level `await` expression never resolves, the `node` process will exit
with a `13` status code.

    
    
    import { spawn } from 'node:child_process';
    import { execPath } from 'node:process';
    
    spawn(execPath, [
      '--input-type=module',
      '--eval',
      // Never-resolving Promise:
      'await new Promise(() => {})',
    ]).once('exit', (code) => {
      console.log(code); // Logs `13`
    }); copy

__

### Loaders#

The former Loaders documentation is now at Modules: Customization hooks.

### Resolution and loading algorithm#

#### Features#

The default resolver has the following properties:

  * FileURL-based resolution as is used by ES modules
  * Relative and absolute URL resolution
  * No default extensions
  * No folder mains
  * Bare specifier package resolution lookup through node_modules
  * Does not fail on unknown extensions or protocols
  * Can optionally provide a hint of the format to the loading phase

The default loader has the following properties

  * Support for builtin module loading via `node:` URLs
  * Support for "inline" module loading via `data:` URLs
  * Support for `file:` module loading
  * Fails on any other URL protocol
  * Fails on unknown extensions for `file:` loading (supports only `.cjs`, `.js`, and `.mjs`)

#### Resolution algorithm#

The algorithm to load an ES module specifier is given through the
**ESM_RESOLVE** method below. It returns the resolved URL for a module
specifier relative to a parentURL.

The resolution algorithm determines the full resolved URL for a module load,
along with its suggested module format. The resolution algorithm does not
determine whether the resolved URL protocol can be loaded, or whether the file
extensions are permitted, instead these validations are applied by Node.js
during the load phase (for example, if it was asked to load a URL that has a
protocol that is not `file:`, `data:` or `node:`.

The algorithm also tries to determine the format of the file based on the
extension (see `ESM_FILE_FORMAT` algorithm below). If it does not recognize
the file extension (eg if it is not `.mjs`, `.cjs`, or `.json`), then a format
of `undefined` is returned, which will throw during the load phase.

The algorithm to determine the module format of a resolved URL is provided by
**ESM_FILE_FORMAT** , which returns the unique module format for any file. The
_"module"_ format is returned for an ECMAScript Module, while the _"commonjs"_
format is used to indicate loading through the legacy CommonJS loader.
Additional formats such as _"addon"_ can be extended in future updates.

In the following algorithms, all subroutine errors are propagated as errors of
these top-level routines unless stated otherwise.

_defaultConditions_ is the conditional environment name array, `["node",
"import"]`.

The resolver can throw the following errors:

  * _Invalid Module Specifier_ : Module specifier is an invalid URL, package name or package subpath specifier.
  * _Invalid Package Configuration_ : package.json configuration is invalid or contains an invalid configuration.
  * _Invalid Package Target_ : Package exports or imports define a target module for the package that is an invalid type or string target.
  * _Package Path Not Exported_ : Package exports do not define or permit a target subpath in the package for the given module.
  * _Package Import Not Defined_ : Package imports do not define the specifier.
  * _Module Not Found_ : The package or module requested does not exist.
  * _Unsupported Directory Import_ : The resolved path corresponds to a directory, which is not a supported target for module imports.

#### Resolution Algorithm Specification#

**ESM_RESOLVE**(_specifier_ , _parentURL_)

>   1. Let _resolved_ be **undefined**.
>   2. If _specifier_ is a valid URL, then
>     1. Set _resolved_ to the result of parsing and reserializing _specifier_
> as a URL.
>   3. Otherwise, if _specifier_ starts with _"/"_ , _"./"_ , or _"../"_ ,
> then
>     1. Set _resolved_ to the URL resolution of _specifier_ relative to
> _parentURL_.
>   4. Otherwise, if _specifier_ starts with _"#"_ , then
>     1. Set _resolved_ to the result of
> **PACKAGE_IMPORTS_RESOLVE**(_specifier_ , _parentURL_ ,
> _defaultConditions_).
>   5. Otherwise,
>     1. Note: _specifier_ is now a bare specifier.
>     2. Set _resolved_ the result of **PACKAGE_RESOLVE**(_specifier_ ,
> _parentURL_).
>   6. Let _format_ be **undefined**.
>   7. If _resolved_ is a _"file:"_ URL, then
>     1. If _resolved_ contains any percent encodings of _"/"_ or _"\"_
> (_"%2F"_ and _"%5C"_ respectively), then
>       1. Throw an _Invalid Module Specifier_ error.
>     2. If the file at _resolved_ is a directory, then
>       1. Throw an _Unsupported Directory Import_ error.
>     3. If the file at _resolved_ does not exist, then
>       1. Throw a _Module Not Found_ error.
>     4. Set _resolved_ to the real path of _resolved_ , maintaining the same
> URL querystring and fragment components.
>     5. Set _format_ to the result of **ESM_FILE_FORMAT**(_resolved_).
>   8. Otherwise,
>     1. Set _format_ the module format of the content type associated with
> the URL _resolved_.
>   9. Return _format_ and _resolved_ to the loading phase
>

**PACKAGE_RESOLVE**(_packageSpecifier_ , _parentURL_)

>   1. Let _packageName_ be **undefined**.
>   2. If _packageSpecifier_ is an empty string, then
>     1. Throw an _Invalid Module Specifier_ error.
>   3. If _packageSpecifier_ is a Node.js builtin module name, then
>     1. Return the string _"node:"_ concatenated with _packageSpecifier_.
>   4. If _packageSpecifier_ does not start with _"@"_ , then
>     1. Set _packageName_ to the substring of _packageSpecifier_ until the
> first _"/"_ separator or the end of the string.
>   5. Otherwise,
>     1. If _packageSpecifier_ does not contain a _"/"_ separator, then
>       1. Throw an _Invalid Module Specifier_ error.
>     2. Set _packageName_ to the substring of _packageSpecifier_ until the
> second _"/"_ separator or the end of the string.
>   6. If _packageName_ starts with _"."_ or contains _"\"_ or _"%"_ , then
>     1. Throw an _Invalid Module Specifier_ error.
>   7. Let _packageSubpath_ be _"."_ concatenated with the substring of
> _packageSpecifier_ from the position at the length of _packageName_.
>   8. If _packageSubpath_ ends in _"/"_ , then
>     1. Throw an _Invalid Module Specifier_ error.
>   9. Let _selfUrl_ be the result of **PACKAGE_SELF_RESOLVE**(_packageName_ ,
> _packageSubpath_ , _parentURL_).
>   10. If _selfUrl_ is not **undefined** , return _selfUrl_.
>   11. While _parentURL_ is not the file system root,
>     1. Let _packageURL_ be the URL resolution of _"node_modules/"_
> concatenated with _packageSpecifier_ , relative to _parentURL_.
>     2. Set _parentURL_ to the parent folder URL of _parentURL_.
>     3. If the folder at _packageURL_ does not exist, then
>       1. Continue the next loop iteration.
>     4. Let _pjson_ be the result of **READ_PACKAGE_JSON**(_packageURL_).
>     5. If _pjson_ is not **null** and _pjson_._exports_ is not **null** or
> **undefined** , then
>       1. Return the result of **PACKAGE_EXPORTS_RESOLVE**(_packageURL_ ,
> _packageSubpath_ , _pjson.exports_ , _defaultConditions_).
>     6. Otherwise, if _packageSubpath_ is equal to _"."_ , then
>       1. If _pjson.main_ is a string, then
>         1. Return the URL resolution of _main_ in _packageURL_.
>     7. Otherwise,
>       1. Return the URL resolution of _packageSubpath_ in _packageURL_.
>   12. Throw a _Module Not Found_ error.
>

**PACKAGE_SELF_RESOLVE**(_packageName_ , _packageSubpath_ , _parentURL_)

>   1. Let _packageURL_ be the result of
> **LOOKUP_PACKAGE_SCOPE**(_parentURL_).
>   2. If _packageURL_ is **null** , then
>     1. Return **undefined**.
>   3. Let _pjson_ be the result of **READ_PACKAGE_JSON**(_packageURL_).
>   4. If _pjson_ is **null** or if _pjson_._exports_ is **null** or
> **undefined** , then
>     1. Return **undefined**.
>   5. If _pjson.name_ is equal to _packageName_ , then
>     1. Return the result of **PACKAGE_EXPORTS_RESOLVE**(_packageURL_ ,
> _packageSubpath_ , _pjson.exports_ , _defaultConditions_).
>   6. Otherwise, return **undefined**.
>

**PACKAGE_EXPORTS_RESOLVE**(_packageURL_ , _subpath_ , _exports_ ,
_conditions_)

>   1. If _exports_ is an Object with both a key starting with _"."_ and a key
> not starting with _"."_ , throw an _Invalid Package Configuration_ error.
>   2. If _subpath_ is equal to _"."_ , then
>     1. Let _mainExport_ be **undefined**.
>     2. If _exports_ is a String or Array, or an Object containing no keys
> starting with _"."_ , then
>       1. Set _mainExport_ to _exports_.
>     3. Otherwise if _exports_ is an Object containing a _"."_ property, then
>       1. Set _mainExport_ to _exports_[_"."_].
>     4. If _mainExport_ is not **undefined** , then
>       1. Let _resolved_ be the result of **PACKAGE_TARGET_RESOLVE**(
> _packageURL_ , _mainExport_ , **null** , **false** , _conditions_).
>       2. If _resolved_ is not **null** or **undefined** , return _resolved_.
>   3. Otherwise, if _exports_ is an Object and all keys of _exports_ start
> with _"."_ , then
>     1. Assert: _subpath_ begins with _"./"_.
>     2. Let _resolved_ be the result of **PACKAGE_IMPORTS_EXPORTS_RESOLVE**(
> _subpath_ , _exports_ , _packageURL_ , **false** , _conditions_).
>     3. If _resolved_ is not **null** or **undefined** , return _resolved_.
>   4. Throw a _Package Path Not Exported_ error.
>

**PACKAGE_IMPORTS_RESOLVE**(_specifier_ , _parentURL_ , _conditions_)

>   1. Assert: _specifier_ begins with _"#"_.
>   2. If _specifier_ is exactly equal to _"#"_ or starts with _"#/"_ , then
>     1. Throw an _Invalid Module Specifier_ error.
>   3. Let _packageURL_ be the result of
> **LOOKUP_PACKAGE_SCOPE**(_parentURL_).
>   4. If _packageURL_ is not **null** , then
>     1. Let _pjson_ be the result of **READ_PACKAGE_JSON**(_packageURL_).
>     2. If _pjson.imports_ is a non-null Object, then
>       1. Let _resolved_ be the result of
> **PACKAGE_IMPORTS_EXPORTS_RESOLVE**( _specifier_ , _pjson.imports_ ,
> _packageURL_ , **true** , _conditions_).
>       2. If _resolved_ is not **null** or **undefined** , return _resolved_.
>   5. Throw a _Package Import Not Defined_ error.
>

**PACKAGE_IMPORTS_EXPORTS_RESOLVE**(_matchKey_ , _matchObj_ , _packageURL_ ,
_isImports_ , _conditions_)

>   1. If _matchKey_ is a key of _matchObj_ and does not contain _"*"_ , then
>     1. Let _target_ be the value of _matchObj_[_matchKey_].
>     2. Return the result of **PACKAGE_TARGET_RESOLVE**(_packageURL_ ,
> _target_ , **null** , _isImports_ , _conditions_).
>   2. Let _expansionKeys_ be the list of keys of _matchObj_ containing only a
> single _"*"_ , sorted by the sorting function **PATTERN_KEY_COMPARE** which
> orders in descending order of specificity.
>   3. For each key _expansionKey_ in _expansionKeys_ , do
>     1. Let _patternBase_ be the substring of _expansionKey_ up to but
> excluding the first _"*"_ character.
>     2. If _matchKey_ starts with but is not equal to _patternBase_ , then
>       1. Let _patternTrailer_ be the substring of _expansionKey_ from the
> index after the first _"*"_ character.
>       2. If _patternTrailer_ has zero length, or if _matchKey_ ends with
> _patternTrailer_ and the length of _matchKey_ is greater than or equal to
> the length of _expansionKey_ , then
>         1. Let _target_ be the value of _matchObj_[_expansionKey_].
>         2. Let _patternMatch_ be the substring of _matchKey_ starting at the
> index of the length of _patternBase_ up to the length of _matchKey_ minus
> the length of _patternTrailer_.
>         3. Return the result of **PACKAGE_TARGET_RESOLVE**(_packageURL_ ,
> _target_ , _patternMatch_ , _isImports_ , _conditions_).
>   4. Return **null**.
>

**PATTERN_KEY_COMPARE**(_keyA_ , _keyB_)

>   1. Assert: _keyA_ contains only a single _"*"_.
>   2. Assert: _keyB_ contains only a single _"*"_.
>   3. Let _baseLengthA_ be the index of _"*"_ in _keyA_.
>   4. Let _baseLengthB_ be the index of _"*"_ in _keyB_.
>   5. If _baseLengthA_ is greater than _baseLengthB_ , return -1.
>   6. If _baseLengthB_ is greater than _baseLengthA_ , return 1.
>   7. If the length of _keyA_ is greater than the length of _keyB_ , return
> -1.
>   8. If the length of _keyB_ is greater than the length of _keyA_ , return
> 1.
>   9. Return 0.
>

**PACKAGE_TARGET_RESOLVE**(_packageURL_ , _target_ , _patternMatch_ ,
_isImports_ , _conditions_)

>   1. If _target_ is a String, then
>     1. If _target_ does not start with _"./"_ , then
>       1. If _isImports_ is **false** , or if _target_ starts with _"../"_ or
> _"/"_ , or if _target_ is a valid URL, then
>         1. Throw an _Invalid Package Target_ error.
>       2. If _patternMatch_ is a String, then
>         1. Return **PACKAGE_RESOLVE**(_target_ with every instance of _"*"_
> replaced by _patternMatch_ , _packageURL_ \+ _"/"_).
>       3. Return **PACKAGE_RESOLVE**(_target_ , _packageURL_ \+ _"/"_).
>     2. If _target_ split on _"/"_ or _"\"_ contains any _""_ , _"."_ ,
> _".."_ , or _"node_modules"_ segments after the first _"."_ segment, case
> insensitive and including percent encoded variants, throw an _Invalid
> Package Target_ error.
>     3. Let _resolvedTarget_ be the URL resolution of the concatenation of
> _packageURL_ and _target_.
>     4. Assert: _packageURL_ is contained in _resolvedTarget_.
>     5. If _patternMatch_ is **null** , then
>       1. Return _resolvedTarget_.
>     6. If _patternMatch_ split on _"/"_ or _"\"_ contains any _""_ , _"."_ ,
> _".."_ , or _"node_modules"_ segments, case insensitive and including
> percent encoded variants, throw an _Invalid Module Specifier_ error.
>     7. Return the URL resolution of _resolvedTarget_ with every instance of
> _"*"_ replaced with _patternMatch_.
>   2. Otherwise, if _target_ is a non-null Object, then
>     1. If _target_ contains any index property keys, as defined in ECMA-262
> [6.1.7 Array Index](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#integer-index), throw an
> _Invalid Package Configuration_ error.
>     2. For each property _p_ of _target_ , in object insertion order as,
>       1. If _p_ equals _"default"_ or _conditions_ contains an entry for _p_
> , then
>         1. Let _targetValue_ be the value of the _p_ property in _target_.
>         2. Let _resolved_ be the result of **PACKAGE_TARGET_RESOLVE**(
> _packageURL_ , _targetValue_ , _patternMatch_ , _isImports_ , _conditions_).
>         3. If _resolved_ is equal to **undefined** , continue the loop.
>         4. Return _resolved_.
>     3. Return **undefined**.
>   3. Otherwise, if _target_ is an Array, then
>     1. If _target.length is zero, return **null**.
>     2. For each item _targetValue_ in _target_ , do
>       1. Let _resolved_ be the result of **PACKAGE_TARGET_RESOLVE**(
> _packageURL_ , _targetValue_ , _patternMatch_ , _isImports_ , _conditions_),
> continuing the loop on any _Invalid Package Target_ error.
>       2. If _resolved_ is **undefined** , continue the loop.
>       3. Return _resolved_.
>     3. Return or throw the last fallback resolution **null** return or
> error.
>   4. Otherwise, if _target_ is _null_ , return **null**.
>   5. Otherwise throw an _Invalid Package Target_ error.
>

**ESM_FILE_FORMAT**(_url_)

>   1. Assert: _url_ corresponds to an existing file.
>   2. If _url_ ends in _".mjs"_ , then
>     1. Return _"module"_.
>   3. If _url_ ends in _".cjs"_ , then
>     1. Return _"commonjs"_.
>   4. If _url_ ends in _".json"_ , then
>     1. Return _"json"_.
>   5. If `--experimental-wasm-modules` is enabled and _url_ ends in _".wasm"_
> , then
>     1. Return _"wasm"_.
>   6. If `--experimental-addon-modules` is enabled and _url_ ends in
> _".node"_ , then
>     1. Return _"addon"_.
>   7. Let _packageURL_ be the result of **LOOKUP_PACKAGE_SCOPE**(_url_).
>   8. Let _pjson_ be the result of **READ_PACKAGE_JSON**(_packageURL_).
>   9. Let _packageType_ be **null**.
>   10. If _pjson?.type_ is _"module"_ or _"commonjs"_ , then
>     1. Set _packageType_ to _pjson.type_.
>   11. If _url_ ends in _".js"_ , then
>     1. If _packageType_ is not **null** , then
>       1. Return _packageType_.
>     2. If the result of **DETECT_MODULE_SYNTAX**(_source_) is true, then
>       1. Return _"module"_.
>     3. Return _"commonjs"_.
>   12. If _url_ does not have any extension, then
>     1. If _packageType_ is _"module"_ and `--experimental-wasm-modules` is
> enabled and the file at _url_ contains the header for a WebAssembly module,
> then
>       1. Return _"wasm"_.
>     2. If _packageType_ is not **null** , then
>       1. Return _packageType_.
>     3. If the result of **DETECT_MODULE_SYNTAX**(_source_) is true, then
>       1. Return _"module"_.
>     4. Return _"commonjs"_.
>   13. Return **undefined** (will throw during load phase).
>

**LOOKUP_PACKAGE_SCOPE**(_url_)

>   1. Let _scopeURL_ be _url_.
>   2. While _scopeURL_ is not the file system root,
>     1. Set _scopeURL_ to the parent URL of _scopeURL_.
>     2. If _scopeURL_ ends in a _"node_modules"_ path segment, return
> **null**.
>     3. Let _pjsonURL_ be the resolution of _"package.json"_ within
> _scopeURL_.
>     4. if the file at _pjsonURL_ exists, then
>       1. Return _scopeURL_.
>   3. Return **null**.
>

**READ_PACKAGE_JSON**(_packageURL_)

>   1. Let _pjsonURL_ be the resolution of _"package.json"_ within
> _packageURL_.
>   2. If the file at _pjsonURL_ does not exist, then
>     1. Return **null**.
>   3. If the file at _packageURL_ does not parse as valid JSON, then
>     1. Throw an _Invalid Package Configuration_ error.
>   4. Return the parsed JSON source of the file at _pjsonURL_.
>

**DETECT_MODULE_SYNTAX**(_source_)

>   1. Parse _source_ as an ECMAScript module.
>   2. If the parse is successful, then
>     1. If _source_ contains top-level `await`, static `import` or `export`
> statements, or `import.meta`, return **true**.
>     2. If _source_ contains a top-level lexical declaration (`const`, `let`,
> or `class`) of any of the CommonJS wrapper variables (`require`, `exports`,
> `module`, `__filename`, or `__dirname`) then return **true**.
>   3. Else return **false**.
>

#### Customizing ESM specifier resolution algorithm#

Module customization hooks provide a mechanism for customizing the ESM
specifier resolution algorithm. An example that provides CommonJS-style
resolution for ESM specifiers is [commonjs-extension-resolution-
loader](https://github.com/nodejs/loaders-test/tree/main/commonjs-extension-
resolution-loader).

## Modules: `node:module` API#

Added in: v0.3.7

### The `Module` object#

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Provides general utility methods when interacting with instances of `Module`,
the `module` variable often seen in [CommonJS](modules.html) modules. Accessed
via `import 'node:module'` or `require('node:module')`.

#### `module.builtinModules`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.5.0 | The list now also contains prefix-only modules.  
v9.3.0, v8.10.0, v6.13.0 | Added in: v9.3.0, v8.10.0, v6.13.0  
  
  * [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

A list of the names of all modules provided by Node.js. Can be used to verify
if a module is maintained by a third party or not.

`module` in this context isn't the same object that's provided by the module
wrapper. To access it, require the `Module` module:

    
    
    // module.mjs
    // In an ECMAScript module
    import { builtinModules as builtin } from 'node:module';// module.cjs
    // In a CommonJS module
    const builtin = require('node:module').builtinModules;copy

#### `module.createRequire(filename)`#

Added in: v12.2.0

  * `filename` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> Filename to be used to construct the require function. Must be a file URL object, file URL string, or absolute path string.
  * Returns: <require> Require function

    
    
    import { createRequire } from 'node:module';
    const require = createRequire(import.meta.url);
    
    // sibling-module.js is a CommonJS module.
    const siblingModule = require('./sibling-module'); copy

#### `module.findPackageJSON(specifier[, base])`#

Added in: v23.2.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active Development

  * `specifier` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> The specifier for the module whose `package.json` to retrieve. When passing a _bare specifier_ , the `package.json` at the root of the package is returned. When passing a _relative specifier_ or an _absolute specifier_ , the closest parent `package.json` is returned.
  * `base` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> The absolute location (`file:` URL string or FS path) of the containing module. For CJS, use `__filename` (not `__dirname`!); for ESM, use `import.meta.url`. You do not need to pass it if `specifier` is an `absolute specifier`.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) A path if the `package.json` is found. When `specifier` is a package, the package's root `package.json`; when a relative or unresolved, the closest `package.json` to the `specifier`.

> **Caveat** : Do not use this to try to determine module format. There are
> many things affecting that determination; the `type` field of package.json
> is the _least_ definitive (ex file extension supersedes it, and a loader
> hook supersedes that).

> **Caveat** : This currently leverages only the built-in default resolver; if
> `resolve` customization hooks are registered, they will not affect the
> resolution. This may change in the future.
    
    
    /path/to/project
      ├ packages/
        ├ bar/
          ├ bar.js
          └ package.json // name = '@foo/bar'
        └ qux/
          ├ node_modules/
            └ some-package/
              └ package.json // name = 'some-package'
          ├ qux.js
          └ package.json // name = '@foo/qux'
      ├ main.js
      └ package.json // name = '@foo' copy
    
    
    // /path/to/project/packages/bar/bar.js
    import { findPackageJSON } from 'node:module';
    
    findPackageJSON('..', import.meta.url);
    // '/path/to/project/package.json'
    // Same result when passing an absolute specifier instead:
    findPackageJSON(new URL('../', import.meta.url));
    findPackageJSON(import.meta.resolve('../'));
    
    findPackageJSON('some-package', import.meta.url);
    // '/path/to/project/packages/bar/node_modules/some-package/package.json'
    // When passing an absolute specifier, you might get a different result if the
    // resolved module is inside a subfolder that has nested `package.json`.
    findPackageJSON(import.meta.resolve('some-package'));
    // '/path/to/project/packages/bar/node_modules/some-package/some-subfolder/package.json'
    
    findPackageJSON('@foo/qux', import.meta.url);
    // '/path/to/project/packages/qux/package.json'// /path/to/project/packages/bar/bar.js
    const { findPackageJSON } = require('node:module');
    const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');
    const path = require('node:path');
    
    findPackageJSON('..', __filename);
    // '/path/to/project/package.json'
    // Same result when passing an absolute specifier instead:
    findPackageJSON(pathToFileURL(path.join(__dirname, '..')));
    
    findPackageJSON('some-package', __filename);
    // '/path/to/project/packages/bar/node_modules/some-package/package.json'
    // When passing an absolute specifier, you might get a different result if the
    // resolved module is inside a subfolder that has nested `package.json`.
    findPackageJSON(pathToFileURL(require.resolve('some-package')));
    // '/path/to/project/packages/bar/node_modules/some-package/some-subfolder/package.json'
    
    findPackageJSON('@foo/qux', __filename);
    // '/path/to/project/packages/qux/package.json'copy

#### `module.isBuiltin(moduleName)`#

Added in: v18.6.0, v16.17.0

  * `moduleName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) name of the module
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) returns true if the module is builtin else returns false

    
    
    import { isBuiltin } from 'node:module';
    isBuiltin('node:fs'); // true
    isBuiltin('fs'); // true
    isBuiltin('wss'); // false copy

#### `module.register(specifier[, parentURL][, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.6.1 | Using this feature with the permission model enabled requires passing `--allow-worker`.  
v20.8.0, v18.19.0 | Add support for WHATWG URL instances.  
v20.6.0, v18.19.0 | Added in: v20.6.0, v18.19.0  
  
Stability: 1.2 - Release candidate

  * `specifier` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> Customization hooks to be registered; this should be the same string that would be passed to `import()`, except that if it is relative, it is resolved relative to `parentURL`.
  * `parentURL` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> If you want to resolve `specifier` relative to a base URL, such as `import.meta.url`, you can pass that URL here. **Default:** `'data:'`
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `parentURL` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> If you want to resolve `specifier` relative to a base URL, such as `import.meta.url`, you can pass that URL here. This property is ignored if the `parentURL` is supplied as the second argument. **Default:** `'data:'`
    * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Any arbitrary, cloneable JavaScript value to pass into the `initialize` hook.
    * `transferList` [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) transferable objects to be passed into the `initialize` hook.

Register a module that exports hooks that customize Node.js module resolution
and loading behavior. See Customization hooks.

This feature requires `--allow-worker` if used with the Permission Model.

#### `module.registerHooks(options)`#

Added in: v23.5.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `load` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) See load hook. **Default:** `undefined`.
    * `resolve` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) See resolve hook. **Default:** `undefined`.

Register hooks that customize Node.js module resolution and loading behavior.
See Customization hooks.

#### `module.stripTypeScriptTypes(code[, options])`#

Added in: v23.2.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

  * `code` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The code to strip type annotations from.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `mode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) **Default:** `'strip'`. Possible values are: 
      * `'strip'` Only strip type annotations without performing the transformation of TypeScript features.
      * `'transform'` Strip type annotations and transform TypeScript features to JavaScript.
    * `sourceMap` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`. Only when `mode` is `'transform'`, if `true`, a source map will be generated for the transformed code.
    * `sourceUrl` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Specifies the source url used in the source map.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The code with type annotations stripped. `module.stripTypeScriptTypes()` removes type annotations from TypeScript code. It can be used to strip type annotations from TypeScript code before running it with `vm.runInContext()` or `vm.compileFunction()`. By default, it will throw an error if the code contains TypeScript features that require transformation such as `Enums`, see type-stripping for more information. When mode is `'transform'`, it also transforms TypeScript features to JavaScript, see transform TypeScript features for more information. When mode is `'strip'`, source maps are not generated, because locations are preserved. If `sourceMap` is provided, when mode is `'strip'`, an error will be thrown.

_WARNING_ : The output of this function should not be considered stable across
Node.js versions, due to changes in the TypeScript parser.

    
    
    import { stripTypeScriptTypes } from 'node:module';
    const code = 'const a: number = 1;';
    const strippedCode = stripTypeScriptTypes(code);
    console.log(strippedCode);
    // Prints: const a         = 1;const { stripTypeScriptTypes } = require('node:module');
    const code = 'const a: number = 1;';
    const strippedCode = stripTypeScriptTypes(code);
    console.log(strippedCode);
    // Prints: const a         = 1;copy

If `sourceUrl` is provided, it will be used appended as a comment at the end
of the output:

    
    
    import { stripTypeScriptTypes } from 'node:module';
    const code = 'const a: number = 1;';
    const strippedCode = stripTypeScriptTypes(code, { mode: 'strip', sourceUrl: 'source.ts' });
    console.log(strippedCode);
    // Prints: const a         = 1\n\n//# sourceURL=source.ts;const { stripTypeScriptTypes } = require('node:module');
    const code = 'const a: number = 1;';
    const strippedCode = stripTypeScriptTypes(code, { mode: 'strip', sourceUrl: 'source.ts' });
    console.log(strippedCode);
    // Prints: const a         = 1\n\n//# sourceURL=source.ts;copy

When `mode` is `'transform'`, the code is transformed to JavaScript:

    
    
    import { stripTypeScriptTypes } from 'node:module';
    const code = `
      namespace MathUtil {
        export const add = (a: number, b: number) => a + b;
      }`;
    const strippedCode = stripTypeScriptTypes(code, { mode: 'transform', sourceMap: true });
    console.log(strippedCode);
    // Prints:
    // var MathUtil;
    // (function(MathUtil) {
    //     MathUtil.add = (a, b)=>a + b;
    // })(MathUtil || (MathUtil = {}));
    // # sourceMappingURL=data:application/json;base64, ...const { stripTypeScriptTypes } = require('node:module');
    const code = `
      namespace MathUtil {
        export const add = (a: number, b: number) => a + b;
      }`;
    const strippedCode = stripTypeScriptTypes(code, { mode: 'transform', sourceMap: true });
    console.log(strippedCode);
    // Prints:
    // var MathUtil;
    // (function(MathUtil) {
    //     MathUtil.add = (a, b)=>a + b;
    // })(MathUtil || (MathUtil = {}));
    // # sourceMappingURL=data:application/json;base64, ...copy

#### `module.syncBuiltinESMExports()`#

Added in: v12.12.0

The `module.syncBuiltinESMExports()` method updates all the live bindings for
builtin [ES Modules](esm.html) to match the properties of the
[CommonJS](modules.html) exports. It does not add or remove exported names
from the [ES Modules](esm.html).

    
    
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { syncBuiltinESMExports } = require('node:module');
    
    fs.readFile = newAPI;
    
    delete fs.readFileSync;
    
    function newAPI() {
      // ...
    }
    
    fs.newAPI = newAPI;
    
    syncBuiltinESMExports();
    
    import('node:fs').then((esmFS) => {
      // It syncs the existing readFile property with the new value
      assert.strictEqual(esmFS.readFile, newAPI);
      // readFileSync has been deleted from the required fs
      assert.strictEqual('readFileSync' in fs, false);
      // syncBuiltinESMExports() does not remove readFileSync from esmFS
      assert.strictEqual('readFileSync' in esmFS, true);
      // syncBuiltinESMExports() does not add names
      assert.strictEqual(esmFS.newAPI, undefined);
    }); copy

### Module compile cache#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.8.0 | add initial JavaScript APIs for runtime access.  
v22.1.0 | Added in: v22.1.0  
  
The module compile cache can be enabled either using the
`module.enableCompileCache()` method or the `NODE_COMPILE_CACHE=dir`
environment variable. After it is enabled, whenever Node.js compiles a
CommonJS or a ECMAScript Module, it will use on-disk [V8 code
cache](https://v8.dev/blog/code-caching-for-devs) persisted in the specified
directory to speed up the compilation. This may slow down the first load of a
module graph, but subsequent loads of the same module graph may get a
significant speedup if the contents of the modules do not change.

To clean up the generated compile cache on disk, simply remove the cache
directory. The cache directory will be recreated the next time the same
directory is used for for compile cache storage. To avoid filling up the disk
with stale cache, it is recommended to use a directory under the
`os.tmpdir()`. If the compile cache is enabled by a call to
`module.enableCompileCache()` without specifying the directory, Node.js will
use the `NODE_COMPILE_CACHE=dir` environment variable if it's set, or defaults
to `path.join(os.tmpdir(), 'node-compile-cache')` otherwise. To locate the
compile cache directory used by a running Node.js instance, use
`module.getCompileCacheDir()`.

Currently when using the compile cache with [V8 JavaScript code
coverage](https://v8project.blogspot.com/2017/12/javascript-code-
coverage.html), the coverage being collected by V8 may be less precise in
functions that are deserialized from the code cache. It's recommended to turn
this off when running tests to generate precise coverage.

The enabled module compile cache can be disabled by the
`NODE_DISABLE_COMPILE_CACHE=1` environment variable. This can be useful when
the compile cache leads to unexpected or undesired behaviors (e.g. less
precise test coverage).

Compilation cache generated by one version of Node.js can not be reused by a
different version of Node.js. Cache generated by different versions of Node.js
will be stored separately if the same base directory is used to persist the
cache, so they can co-exist.

At the moment, when the compile cache is enabled and a module is loaded
afresh, the code cache is generated from the compiled code immediately, but
will only be written to disk when the Node.js instance is about to exit. This
is subject to change. The `module.flushCompileCache()` method can be used to
ensure the accumulated code cache is flushed to disk in case the application
wants to spawn other Node.js instances and let them share the cache long
before the parent exits.

#### `module.constants.compileCacheStatus`#

Added in: v22.8.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active Development

The following constants are returned as the `status` field in the object
returned by `module.enableCompileCache()` to indicate the result of the
attempt to enable the module compile cache.

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`ENABLED` |  Node.js has enabled the compile cache successfully. The directory used to store the compile cache will be returned in the `directory` field in the returned object.   
`ALREADY_ENABLED` |  The compile cache has already been enabled before, either by a previous call to `module.enableCompileCache()`, or by the `NODE_COMPILE_CACHE=dir` environment variable. The directory used to store the compile cache will be returned in the `directory` field in the returned object.   
`FAILED` |  Node.js fails to enable the compile cache. This can be caused by the lack of permission to use the specified directory, or various kinds of file system errors. The detail of the failure will be returned in the `message` field in the returned object.   
`DISABLED` |  Node.js cannot enable the compile cache because the environment variable `NODE_DISABLE_COMPILE_CACHE=1` has been set.   
  
#### `module.enableCompileCache([cacheDir])`#

Added in: v22.8.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active Development

  * `cacheDir` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Optional path to specify the directory where the compile cache will be stored/retrieved.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `status` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) One of the `module.constants.compileCacheStatus`
    * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) If Node.js cannot enable the compile cache, this contains the error message. Only set if `status` is `module.constants.compileCacheStatus.FAILED`.
    * `directory` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) If the compile cache is enabled, this contains the directory where the compile cache is stored. Only set if `status` is `module.constants.compileCacheStatus.ENABLED` or `module.constants.compileCacheStatus.ALREADY_ENABLED`.

Enable module compile cache in the current Node.js instance.

If `cacheDir` is not specified, Node.js will either use the directory
specified by the `NODE_COMPILE_CACHE=dir` environment variable if it's set, or
use `path.join(os.tmpdir(), 'node-compile-cache')` otherwise. For general use
cases, it's recommended to call `module.enableCompileCache()` without
specifying the `cacheDir`, so that the directory can be overridden by the
`NODE_COMPILE_CACHE` environment variable when necessary.

Since compile cache is supposed to be a quiet optimization that is not
required for the application to be functional, this method is designed to not
throw any exception when the compile cache cannot be enabled. Instead, it will
return an object containing an error message in the `message` field to aid
debugging. If compile cache is enabled successfully, the `directory` field in
the returned object contains the path to the directory where the compile cache
is stored. The `status` field in the returned object would be one of the
`module.constants.compileCacheStatus` values to indicate the result of the
attempt to enable the module compile cache.

This method only affects the current Node.js instance. To enable it in child
worker threads, either call this method in child worker threads too, or set
the `process.env.NODE_COMPILE_CACHE` value to compile cache directory so the
behavior can be inherited into the child workers. The directory can be
obtained either from the `directory` field returned by this method, or with
`module.getCompileCacheDir()`.

#### `module.flushCompileCache()`#

Added in: v23.0.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active Development

Flush the module compile cache accumulated from modules already loaded in the
current Node.js instance to disk. This returns after all the flushing file
system operations come to an end, no matter they succeed or not. If there are
any errors, this will fail silently, since compile cache misses should not
interfere with the actual operation of the application.

#### `module.getCompileCacheDir()`#

Added in: v22.8.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active Development

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Path to the module compile cache directory if it is enabled, or `undefined` otherwise.

__

### Customization Hooks#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.5.0 | Add support for synchronous and in-thread hooks.  
v20.6.0, v18.19.0 | Added `initialize` hook to replace `globalPreload`.  
v18.6.0, v16.17.0 | Add support for chaining loaders.  
v16.12.0 | Removed `getFormat`, `getSource`, `transformSource`, and `globalPreload`; added `load` hook and `getGlobalPreload` hook.  
v8.8.0 | Added in: v8.8.0  
  
Stability: 1.2 - Release candidate (asynchronous version) Stability: 1.1 -
Active development (synchronous version)

There are two types of module customization hooks that are currently
supported:

  1. `module.register(specifier[, parentURL][, options])` which takes a module that exports asynchronous hook functions. The functions are run on a separate loader thread.
  2. `module.registerHooks(options)` which takes synchronous hook functions that are run directly on the thread where the module is loaded.

__

#### Enabling#

Module resolution and loading can be customized by:

  1. Registering a file which exports a set of asynchronous hook functions, using the `register` method from `node:module`,
  2. Registering a set of synchronous hook functions using the `registerHooks` method from `node:module`.

The hooks can be registered before the application code is run by using the
`--import` or `--require` flag:

    
    
    node --import ./register-hooks.js ./my-app.js
    node --require ./register-hooks.js ./my-app.js copy
    
    
    // register-hooks.js
    // This file can only be require()-ed if it doesn't contain top-level await.
    // Use module.register() to register asynchronous hooks in a dedicated thread.
    import { register } from 'node:module';
    register('./hooks.mjs', import.meta.url);// register-hooks.js
    const { register } = require('node:module');
    const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');
    // Use module.register() to register asynchronous hooks in a dedicated thread.
    register('./hooks.mjs', pathToFileURL(__filename));copy
    
    
    // Use module.registerHooks() to register synchronous hooks in the main thread.
    import { registerHooks } from 'node:module';
    registerHooks({
      resolve(specifier, context, nextResolve) { /* implementation */ },
      load(url, context, nextLoad) { /* implementation */ },
    });// Use module.registerHooks() to register synchronous hooks in the main thread.
    const { registerHooks } = require('node:module');
    registerHooks({
      resolve(specifier, context, nextResolve) { /* implementation */ },
      load(url, context, nextLoad) { /* implementation */ },
    });copy

The file passed to `--import` or `--require` can also be an export from a
dependency:

    
    
    node --import some-package/register ./my-app.js
    node --require some-package/register ./my-app.js copy

Where `some-package` has an `"exports"` field defining the `/register` export
to map to a file that calls `register()`, like the following `register-
hooks.js` example.

Using `--import` or `--require` ensures that the hooks are registered before
any application files are imported, including the entry point of the
application and for any worker threads by default as well.

Alternatively, `register()` and `registerHooks()` can be called from the entry
point, though dynamic `import()` must be used for any ESM code that should be
run after the hooks are registered.

    
    
    import { register } from 'node:module';
    
    register('http-to-https', import.meta.url);
    
    // Because this is a dynamic `import()`, the `http-to-https` hooks will run
    // to handle `./my-app.js` and any other files it imports or requires.
    await import('./my-app.js');const { register } = require('node:module');
    const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');
    
    register('http-to-https', pathToFileURL(__filename));
    
    // Because this is a dynamic `import()`, the `http-to-https` hooks will run
    // to handle `./my-app.js` and any other files it imports or requires.
    import('./my-app.js');copy

Customization hooks will run for any modules loaded later than the
registration and the modules they reference via `import` and the built-in
`require`. `require` function created by users using `module.createRequire()`
can only be customized by the synchronous hooks.

In this example, we are registering the `http-to-https` hooks, but they will
only be available for subsequently imported modules — in this case, `my-
app.js` and anything it references via `import` or built-in `require` in
CommonJS dependencies.

If the `import('./my-app.js')` had instead been a static `import './my-
app.js'`, the app would have _already_ been loaded **before** the `http-to-
https` hooks were registered. This due to the ES modules specification, where
static imports are evaluated from the leaves of the tree first, then back to
the trunk. There can be static imports _within_ `my-app.js`, which will not be
evaluated until `my-app.js` is dynamically imported.

If synchronous hooks are used, both `import`, `require` and user `require`
created using `createRequire()` are supported.

    
    
    import { registerHooks, createRequire } from 'node:module';
    
    registerHooks({ /* implementation of synchronous hooks */ });
    
    const require = createRequire(import.meta.url);
    
    // The synchronous hooks affect import, require() and user require() function
    // created through createRequire().
    await import('./my-app.js');
    require('./my-app-2.js');const { register, registerHooks } = require('node:module');
    const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');
    
    registerHooks({ /* implementation of synchronous hooks */ });
    
    const userRequire = createRequire(__filename);
    
    // The synchronous hooks affect import, require() and user require() function
    // created through createRequire().
    import('./my-app.js');
    require('./my-app-2.js');
    userRequire('./my-app-3.js');copy

Finally, if all you want to do is register hooks before your app runs and you
don't want to create a separate file for that purpose, you can pass a `data:`
URL to `--import`:

    
    
    node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; import { pathToFileURL } from "node:url"; register("http-to-https", pathToFileURL("./"));' ./my-app.js copy

#### Chaining#

It's possible to call `register` more than once:

    
    
    // entrypoint.mjs
    import { register } from 'node:module';
    
    register('./foo.mjs', import.meta.url);
    register('./bar.mjs', import.meta.url);
    await import('./my-app.mjs');// entrypoint.cjs
    const { register } = require('node:module');
    const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');
    
    const parentURL = pathToFileURL(__filename);
    register('./foo.mjs', parentURL);
    register('./bar.mjs', parentURL);
    import('./my-app.mjs');copy

In this example, the registered hooks will form chains. These chains run last-
in, first out (LIFO). If both `foo.mjs` and `bar.mjs` define a `resolve` hook,
they will be called like so (note the right-to-left): node's default ←
`./foo.mjs` ← `./bar.mjs` (starting with `./bar.mjs`, then `./foo.mjs`, then
the Node.js default). The same applies to all the other hooks.

The registered hooks also affect `register` itself. In this example, `bar.mjs`
will be resolved and loaded via the hooks registered by `foo.mjs` (because
`foo`'s hooks will have already been added to the chain). This allows for
things like writing hooks in non-JavaScript languages, so long as earlier
registered hooks transpile into JavaScript.

The `register` method cannot be called from within the module that defines the
hooks.

Chaining of `registerHooks` work similarly. If synchronous and asynchronous
hooks are mixed, the synchronous hooks are always run first before the
asynchronous hooks start running, that is, in the last synchronous hook being
run, its next hook includes invocation of the asynchronous hooks.

    
    
    // entrypoint.mjs
    import { registerHooks } from 'node:module';
    
    const hook1 = { /* implementation of hooks */ };
    const hook2 = { /* implementation of hooks */ };
    // hook2 run before hook1.
    registerHooks(hook1);
    registerHooks(hook2);// entrypoint.cjs
    const { registerHooks } = require('node:module');
    
    const hook1 = { /* implementation of hooks */ };
    const hook2 = { /* implementation of hooks */ };
    // hook2 run before hook1.
    registerHooks(hook1);
    registerHooks(hook2);copy

#### Communication with module customization hooks#

Asynchronous hooks run on a dedicated thread, separate from the main thread
that runs application code. This means mutating global variables won't affect
the other thread(s), and message channels must be used to communicate between
the threads.

The `register` method can be used to pass data to an `initialize` hook. The
data passed to the hook may include transferable objects like ports.

    
    
    import { register } from 'node:module';
    import { MessageChannel } from 'node:worker_threads';
    
    // This example demonstrates how a message channel can be used to
    // communicate with the hooks, by sending `port2` to the hooks.
    const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();
    
    port1.on('message', (msg) => {
      console.log(msg);
    });
    port1.unref();
    
    register('./my-hooks.mjs', {
      parentURL: import.meta.url,
      data: { number: 1, port: port2 },
      transferList: [port2],
    });const { register } = require('node:module');
    const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');
    const { MessageChannel } = require('node:worker_threads');
    
    // This example showcases how a message channel can be used to
    // communicate with the hooks, by sending `port2` to the hooks.
    const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();
    
    port1.on('message', (msg) => {
      console.log(msg);
    });
    port1.unref();
    
    register('./my-hooks.mjs', {
      parentURL: pathToFileURL(__filename),
      data: { number: 1, port: port2 },
      transferList: [port2],
    });copy

Synchronous module hooks are run on the same thread where the application code
is run. They can directly mutate the globals of the context accessed by the
main thread.

#### Hooks#

##### Asynchronous hooks accepted by `module.register()`#

The `register` method can be used to register a module that exports a set of
hooks. The hooks are functions that are called by Node.js to customize the
module resolution and loading process. The exported functions must have
specific names and signatures, and they must be exported as named exports.

    
    
    export async function initialize({ number, port }) {
      // Receives data from `register`.
    }
    
    export async function resolve(specifier, context, nextResolve) {
      // Take an `import` or `require` specifier and resolve it to a URL.
    }
    
    export async function load(url, context, nextLoad) {
      // Take a resolved URL and return the source code to be evaluated.
    } copy

Asynchronous hooks are run in a separate thread, isolated from the main thread
where application code runs. That means it is a different
[realm](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#realm). The hooks thread may be terminated by
the main thread at any time, so do not depend on asynchronous operations (like
`console.log`) to complete. They are inherited into child workers by default.

##### Synchronous hooks accepted by `module.registerHooks()`#

Added in: v23.5.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

The `module.registerHooks()` method accepts synchronous hook functions.
`initialize()` is not supported nor necessary, as the hook implementer can
simply run the initialization code directly before the call to
`module.registerHooks()`.

    
    
    function resolve(specifier, context, nextResolve) {
      // Take an `import` or `require` specifier and resolve it to a URL.
    }
    
    function load(url, context, nextLoad) {
      // Take a resolved URL and return the source code to be evaluated.
    } copy

Synchronous hooks are run in the same thread and the same
[realm](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#realm) where the modules are loaded. Unlike
the asynchronous hooks they are not inherited into child worker threads by
default, though if the hooks are registered using a file preloaded by
`--import` or `--require`, child worker threads can inherit the preloaded
scripts via `process.execArgv` inheritance. See the documentation of `Worker`
for detail.

In synchronous hooks, users can expect `console.log()` to complete in the same
way that they expect `console.log()` in module code to complete.

##### Conventions of hooks#

Hooks are part of a chain, even if that chain consists of only one custom
(user-provided) hook and the default hook, which is always present. Hook
functions nest: each one must always return a plain object, and chaining
happens as a result of each function calling `next<hookName>()`, which is a
reference to the subsequent loader's hook (in LIFO order).

A hook that returns a value lacking a required property triggers an exception.
A hook that returns without calling `next<hookName>()` _and_ without returning
`shortCircuit: true` also triggers an exception. These errors are to help
prevent unintentional breaks in the chain. Return `shortCircuit: true` from a
hook to signal that the chain is intentionally ending at your hook.

##### `initialize()`#

Added in: v20.6.0, v18.19.0

Stability: 1.2 - Release candidate

  * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The data from `register(loader, import.meta.url, { data })`.

The `initialize` hook is only accepted by `register`. `registerHooks()` does
not support nor need it since initialization done for synchronous hooks can be
run directly before the call to `registerHooks()`.

The `initialize` hook provides a way to define a custom function that runs in
the hooks thread when the hooks module is initialized. Initialization happens
when the hooks module is registered via `register`.

This hook can receive data from a `register` invocation, including ports and
other transferable objects. The return value of `initialize` can be a
[<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise), in which case it
will be awaited before the main application thread execution resumes.

Module customization code:

    
    
    // path-to-my-hooks.js
    
    export async function initialize({ number, port }) {
      port.postMessage(`increment: ${number + 1}`);
    } copy

Caller code:

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { register } from 'node:module';
    import { MessageChannel } from 'node:worker_threads';
    
    // This example showcases how a message channel can be used to communicate
    // between the main (application) thread and the hooks running on the hooks
    // thread, by sending `port2` to the `initialize` hook.
    const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();
    
    port1.on('message', (msg) => {
      assert.strictEqual(msg, 'increment: 2');
    });
    port1.unref();
    
    register('./path-to-my-hooks.js', {
      parentURL: import.meta.url,
      data: { number: 1, port: port2 },
      transferList: [port2],
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { register } = require('node:module');
    const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');
    const { MessageChannel } = require('node:worker_threads');
    
    // This example showcases how a message channel can be used to communicate
    // between the main (application) thread and the hooks running on the hooks
    // thread, by sending `port2` to the `initialize` hook.
    const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();
    
    port1.on('message', (msg) => {
      assert.strictEqual(msg, 'increment: 2');
    });
    port1.unref();
    
    register('./path-to-my-hooks.js', {
      parentURL: pathToFileURL(__filename),
      data: { number: 1, port: port2 },
      transferList: [port2],
    });copy

##### `resolve(specifier, context, nextResolve)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.5.0 | Add support for synchronous and in-thread hooks.  
v21.0.0, v20.10.0, v18.19.0 | The property `context.importAssertions` is replaced with `context.importAttributes`. Using the old name is still supported and will emit an experimental warning.  
v18.6.0, v16.17.0 | Add support for chaining resolve hooks. Each hook must either call `nextResolve()` or include a `shortCircuit` property set to `true` in its return.  
v17.1.0, v16.14.0 | Add support for import assertions.  
  
Stability: 1.2 - Release candidate (asynchronous version) Stability: 1.1 -
Active development (synchronous version)

  * `specifier` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `context` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `conditions` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Export conditions of the relevant `package.json`
    * `importAttributes` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An object whose key-value pairs represent the attributes for the module to import
    * `parentURL` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The module importing this one, or undefined if this is the Node.js entry point
  * `nextResolve` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The subsequent `resolve` hook in the chain, or the Node.js default `resolve` hook after the last user-supplied `resolve` hook 
    * `specifier` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `context` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) When omitted, the defaults are provided. When provided, defaults are merged in with preference to the provided properties.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) The asynchronous version takes either an object containing the following properties, or a `Promise` that will resolve to such an object. The synchronous version only accepts an object returned synchronously. 
    * `format` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) A hint to the `load` hook (it might be ignored). It can be a module format (such as `'commonjs'` or `'module'`) or an arbitrary value like `'css'` or `'yaml'`.
    * `importAttributes` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The import attributes to use when caching the module (optional; if excluded the input will be used)
    * `shortCircuit` [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) | [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) A signal that this hook intends to terminate the chain of `resolve` hooks. **Default:** `false`
    * `url` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The absolute URL to which this input resolves

> **Warning** In the case of the asynchronous version, despite support for
> returning promises and async functions, calls to `resolve` may still block
> the main thread which can impact performance.

The `resolve` hook chain is responsible for telling Node.js where to find and
how to cache a given `import` statement or expression, or `require` call. It
can optionally return a format (such as `'module'`) as a hint to the `load`
hook. If a format is specified, the `load` hook is ultimately responsible for
providing the final `format` value (and it is free to ignore the hint provided
by `resolve`); if `resolve` provides a `format`, a custom `load` hook is
required even if only to pass the value to the Node.js default `load` hook.

Import type attributes are part of the cache key for saving loaded modules
into the internal module cache. The `resolve` hook is responsible for
returning an `importAttributes` object if the module should be cached with
different attributes than were present in the source code.

The `conditions` property in `context` is an array of conditions that will be
used to match package exports conditions for this resolution request. They can
be used for looking up conditional mappings elsewhere or to modify the list
when calling the default resolution logic.

The current package exports conditions are always in the `context.conditions`
array passed into the hook. To guarantee _default Node.js module specifier
resolution behavior_ when calling `defaultResolve`, the `context.conditions`
array passed to it _must_ include _all_ elements of the `context.conditions`
array originally passed into the `resolve` hook.

    
    
    // Asynchronous version accepted by module.register().
    export async function resolve(specifier, context, nextResolve) {
      const { parentURL = null } = context;
    
      if (Math.random() > 0.5) { // Some condition.
        // For some or all specifiers, do some custom logic for resolving.
        // Always return an object of the form {url: <string>}.
        return {
          shortCircuit: true,
          url: parentURL ?
            new URL(specifier, parentURL).href :
            new URL(specifier).href,
        };
      }
    
      if (Math.random() < 0.5) { // Another condition.
        // When calling `defaultResolve`, the arguments can be modified. In this
        // case it's adding another value for matching conditional exports.
        return nextResolve(specifier, {
          ...context,
          conditions: [...context.conditions, 'another-condition'],
        });
      }
    
      // Defer to the next hook in the chain, which would be the
      // Node.js default resolve if this is the last user-specified loader.
      return nextResolve(specifier);
    } copy
    
    
    // Synchronous version accepted by module.registerHooks().
    function resolve(specifier, context, nextResolve) {
      // Similar to the asynchronous resolve() above, since that one does not have
      // any asynchronous logic.
    } copy

##### `load(url, context, nextLoad)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.5.0 | Add support for synchronous and in-thread version.  
v20.6.0 | Add support for `source` with format `commonjs`.  
v18.6.0, v16.17.0 | Add support for chaining load hooks. Each hook must either call `nextLoad()` or include a `shortCircuit` property set to `true` in its return.  
  
Stability: 1.2 - Release candidate (asynchronous version) Stability: 1.1 -
Active development (synchronous version)

  * `url` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The URL returned by the `resolve` chain
  * `context` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `conditions` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Export conditions of the relevant `package.json`
    * `format` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The format optionally supplied by the `resolve` hook chain. This can be any string value as an input; input values do not need to conform to the list of acceptable return values described below.
    * `importAttributes` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * `nextLoad` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The subsequent `load` hook in the chain, or the Node.js default `load` hook after the last user-supplied `load` hook 
    * `url` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `context` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) When omitted, defaults are provided. When provided, defaults are merged in with preference to the provided properties. In the default `nextLoad`, if the module pointed to by `url` does not have explicit module type information, `context.format` is mandatory. 
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) The asynchronous version takes either an object containing the following properties, or a `Promise` that will resolve to such an object. The synchronous version only accepts an object returned synchronously. 
    * `format` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `shortCircuit` [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) | [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) A signal that this hook intends to terminate the chain of `load` hooks. **Default:** `false`
    * `source` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) The source for Node.js to evaluate

The `load` hook provides a way to define a custom method of determining how a
URL should be interpreted, retrieved, and parsed. It is also in charge of
validating the import attributes.

The final value of `format` must be one of the following:

`format`| Description| Acceptable types for `source` returned by `load`  
---|---|---  
`'addon'`| Load a Node.js addon| [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type)  
`'builtin'`| Load a Node.js builtin module|
[<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type)  
`'commonjs'`| Load a Node.js CommonJS module| [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)  
`'json'`| Load a JSON file| [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray)  
`'module'`| Load an ES module| [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray)  
`'wasm'`| Load a WebAssembly module| [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray)  
  
The value of `source` is ignored for type `'builtin'` because currently it is
not possible to replace the value of a Node.js builtin (core) module.

###### Caveat in the asynchronous `load` hook#

When using the asynchronous `load` hook, omitting vs providing a `source` for
`'commonjs'` has very different effects:

  * When a `source` is provided, all `require` calls from this module will be processed by the ESM loader with registered `resolve` and `load` hooks; all `require.resolve` calls from this module will be processed by the ESM loader with registered `resolve` hooks; only a subset of the CommonJS API will be available (e.g. no `require.extensions`, no `require.cache`, no `require.resolve.paths`) and monkey-patching on the CommonJS module loader will not apply.
  * If `source` is undefined or `null`, it will be handled by the CommonJS module loader and `require`/`require.resolve` calls will not go through the registered hooks. This behavior for nullish `source` is temporary — in the future, nullish `source` will not be supported.

These caveats do not apply to the synchronous `load` hook, in which case the
complete set of CommonJS APIs available to the customized CommonJS modules,
and `require`/`require.resolve` always go through the registered hooks.

The Node.js internal asynchronous `load` implementation, which is the value of
`next` for the last hook in the `load` chain, returns `null` for `source` when
`format` is `'commonjs'` for backward compatibility. Here is an example hook
that would opt-in to using the non-default behavior:

    
    
    import { readFile } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    // Asynchronous version accepted by module.register(). This fix is not needed
    // for the synchronous version accepted by module.registerHooks().
    export async function load(url, context, nextLoad) {
      const result = await nextLoad(url, context);
      if (result.format === 'commonjs') {
        result.source ??= await readFile(new URL(result.responseURL ?? url));
      }
      return result;
    } copy

This doesn't apply to the synchronous `load` hook either, in which case the
`source` returned contains source code loaded by the next hook, regardless of
module format.

> **Warning** : The asynchronous `load` hook and namespaced exports from
> CommonJS modules are incompatible. Attempting to use them together will
> result in an empty object from the import. This may be addressed in the
> future. This does not apply to the synchronous `load` hook, in which case
> exports can be used as usual.

> These types all correspond to classes defined in ECMAScript.

  * The specific [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) object is a [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer).
  * The specific [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) object is a [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array).

If the source value of a text-based format (i.e., `'json'`, `'module'`) is not
a string, it is converted to a string using `util.TextDecoder`.

The `load` hook provides a way to define a custom method for retrieving the
source code of a resolved URL. This would allow a loader to potentially avoid
reading files from disk. It could also be used to map an unrecognized format
to a supported one, for example `yaml` to `module`.

    
    
    // Asynchronous version accepted by module.register().
    export async function load(url, context, nextLoad) {
      const { format } = context;
    
      if (Math.random() > 0.5) { // Some condition
        /*
          For some or all URLs, do some custom logic for retrieving the source.
          Always return an object of the form {
            format: <string>,
            source: <string|buffer>,
          }.
        */
        return {
          format,
          shortCircuit: true,
          source: '...',
        };
      }
    
      // Defer to the next hook in the chain.
      return nextLoad(url);
    } copy
    
    
    // Synchronous version accepted by module.registerHooks().
    function load(url, context, nextLoad) {
      // Similar to the asynchronous load() above, since that one does not have
      // any asynchronous logic.
    } copy

In a more advanced scenario, this can also be used to transform an unsupported
source to a supported one (see Examples below).

#### Examples#

The various module customization hooks can be used together to accomplish
wide-ranging customizations of the Node.js code loading and evaluation
behaviors.

##### Import from HTTPS#

The hook below registers hooks to enable rudimentary support for such
specifiers. While this may seem like a significant improvement to Node.js core
functionality, there are substantial downsides to actually using these hooks:
performance is much slower than loading files from disk, there is no caching,
and there is no security.

    
    
    // https-hooks.mjs
    import { get } from 'node:https';
    
    export function load(url, context, nextLoad) {
      // For JavaScript to be loaded over the network, we need to fetch and
      // return it.
      if (url.startsWith('https://')) {
        return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
          get(url, (res) => {
            let data = '';
            res.setEncoding('utf8');
            res.on('data', (chunk) => data += chunk);
            res.on('end', () => resolve({
              // This example assumes all network-provided JavaScript is ES module
              // code.
              format: 'module',
              shortCircuit: true,
              source: data,
            }));
          }).on('error', (err) => reject(err));
        });
      }
    
      // Let Node.js handle all other URLs.
      return nextLoad(url);
    } copy
    
    
    // main.mjs
    import { VERSION } from 'https://coffeescript.org/browser-compiler-modern/coffeescript.js';
    
    console.log(VERSION); copy

With the preceding hooks module, running `node --import
'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; import {
pathToFileURL } from "node:url"; register(pathToFileURL("./https-
hooks.mjs"));' ./main.mjs` prints the current version of CoffeeScript per the
module at the URL in `main.mjs`.

##### Transpilation#

Sources that are in formats Node.js doesn't understand can be converted into
JavaScript using the `load` hook.

This is less performant than transpiling source files before running Node.js;
transpiler hooks should only be used for development and testing purposes.

###### Asynchronous version#

    
    
    // coffeescript-hooks.mjs
    import { readFile } from 'node:fs/promises';
    import { findPackageJSON } from 'node:module';
    import coffeescript from 'coffeescript';
    
    const extensionsRegex = /\.(coffee|litcoffee|coffee\.md)$/;
    
    export async function load(url, context, nextLoad) {
      if (extensionsRegex.test(url)) {
        // CoffeeScript files can be either CommonJS or ES modules. Use a custom format
        // to tell Node.js not to detect its module type.
        const { source: rawSource } = await nextLoad(url, { ...context, format: 'coffee' });
        // This hook converts CoffeeScript source code into JavaScript source code
        // for all imported CoffeeScript files.
        const transformedSource = coffeescript.compile(rawSource.toString(), url);
    
        // To determine how Node.js would interpret the transpilation result,
        // search up the file system for the nearest parent package.json file
        // and read its "type" field.
        return {
          format: await getPackageType(url),
          shortCircuit: true,
          source: transformedSource,
        };
      }
    
      // Let Node.js handle all other URLs.
      return nextLoad(url, context);
    }
    
    async function getPackageType(url) {
      // `url` is only a file path during the first iteration when passed the
      // resolved url from the load() hook
      // an actual file path from load() will contain a file extension as it's
      // required by the spec
      // this simple truthy check for whether `url` contains a file extension will
      // work for most projects but does not cover some edge-cases (such as
      // extensionless files or a url ending in a trailing space)
      const pJson = findPackageJSON(url);
    
      return readFile(pJson, 'utf8')
        .then(JSON.parse)
        .then((json) => json?.type)
        .catch(() => undefined);
    } copy

###### Synchronous version#

    
    
    // coffeescript-sync-hooks.mjs
    import { readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    import { registerHooks, findPackageJSON } from 'node:module';
    import coffeescript from 'coffeescript';
    
    const extensionsRegex = /\.(coffee|litcoffee|coffee\.md)$/;
    
    function load(url, context, nextLoad) {
      if (extensionsRegex.test(url)) {
        const { source: rawSource } = nextLoad(url, { ...context, format: 'coffee' });
        const transformedSource = coffeescript.compile(rawSource.toString(), url);
    
        return {
          format: getPackageType(url),
          shortCircuit: true,
          source: transformedSource,
        };
      }
    
      return nextLoad(url, context);
    }
    
    function getPackageType(url) {
      const pJson = findPackageJSON(url);
      if (!pJson) {
        return undefined;
      }
      try {
        const file = readFileSync(pJson, 'utf-8');
        return JSON.parse(file)?.type;
      } catch {
        return undefined;
      }
    }
    
    registerHooks({ load }); copy

##### Running hooks#

    
    
    # main.coffee
    import { scream } from './scream.coffee'
    console.log scream 'hello, world'
    
    import { version } from 'node:process'
    console.log "Brought to you by Node.js version #{version}" copy
    
    
    # scream.coffee
    export scream = (str) -> str.toUpperCase() copy

For the sake of running the example, add a `package.json` file containing the
module type of the CoffeeScript files.

    
    
    {
      "type": "module"
    } copy

This is only for running the example. In real world loaders,
`getPackageType()` must be able to return an `format` known to Node.js even in
the absence of an explicit type in a `package.json`, or otherwise the
`nextLoad` call would throw `ERR_UNKNOWN_FILE_EXTENSION` (if undefined) or
`ERR_UNKNOWN_MODULE_FORMAT` (if it's not a known format listed in the load
hook documentation).

With the preceding hooks modules, running `node --import
'data:text/javascript,import { register } from "node:module"; import {
pathToFileURL } from "node:url"; register(pathToFileURL("./coffeescript-
hooks.mjs"));' ./main.coffee` or `node --import ./coffeescript-sync-hooks.mjs
./main.coffee` causes `main.coffee` to be turned into JavaScript after its
source code is loaded from disk but before Node.js executes it; and so on for
any `.coffee`, `.litcoffee` or `.coffee.md` files referenced via `import`
statements of any loaded file.

##### Import maps#

The previous two examples defined `load` hooks. This is an example of a
`resolve` hook. This hooks module reads an `import-map.json` file that defines
which specifiers to override to other URLs (this is a very simplistic
implementation of a small subset of the "import maps" specification).

###### Asynchronous version#

    
    
    // import-map-hooks.js
    import fs from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    const { imports } = JSON.parse(await fs.readFile('import-map.json'));
    
    export async function resolve(specifier, context, nextResolve) {
      if (Object.hasOwn(imports, specifier)) {
        return nextResolve(imports[specifier], context);
      }
    
      return nextResolve(specifier, context);
    } copy

###### Synchronous version#

    
    
    // import-map-sync-hooks.js
    import fs from 'node:fs/promises';
    import module from 'node:module';
    
    const { imports } = JSON.parse(fs.readFileSync('import-map.json', 'utf-8'));
    
    function resolve(specifier, context, nextResolve) {
      if (Object.hasOwn(imports, specifier)) {
        return nextResolve(imports[specifier], context);
      }
    
      return nextResolve(specifier, context);
    }
    
    module.registerHooks({ resolve }); copy

###### Using the hooks#

With these files:

    
    
    // main.js
    import 'a-module'; copy
    
    
    // import-map.json
    {
      "imports": {
        "a-module": "./some-module.js"
      }
    } copy
    
    
    // some-module.js
    console.log('some module!'); copy

Running `node --import 'data:text/javascript,import { register } from
"node:module"; import { pathToFileURL } from "node:url";
register(pathToFileURL("./import-map-hooks.js"));' main.js` or `node --import
./import-map-sync-hooks.js main.js` should print `some module!`.

### Source map v3 support#

Added in: v13.7.0, v12.17.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Helpers for interacting with the source map cache. This cache is populated
when source map parsing is enabled and [source map include
directives](https://sourcemaps.info/spec.html#h.lmz475t4mvbx) are found in a
modules' footer.

To enable source map parsing, Node.js must be run with the flag `--enable-
source-maps`, or with code coverage enabled by setting `NODE_V8_COVERAGE=dir`.

    
    
    // module.mjs
    // In an ECMAScript module
    import { findSourceMap, SourceMap } from 'node:module';// module.cjs
    // In a CommonJS module
    const { findSourceMap, SourceMap } = require('node:module');copy

#### `module.getSourceMapsSupport()`#

Added in: v23.7.0

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `enabled` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If the source maps support is enabled
    * `nodeModules` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If the support is enabled for files in `node_modules`.
    * `generatedCode` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If the support is enabled for generated code from `eval` or `new Function`.

This method returns whether the [Source Map
v3](https://sourcemaps.info/spec.html) support for stack traces is enabled.

#### `module.findSourceMap(path)`#

Added in: v13.7.0, v12.17.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: <module.SourceMap> | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Returns `module.SourceMap` if a source map is found, `undefined` otherwise.

`path` is the resolved path for the file for which a corresponding source map
should be fetched.

#### `module.setSourceMapsSupport(enabled[, options])`#

Added in: v23.7.0

  * `enabled` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Enable the source map support.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Optional 
    * `nodeModules` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If enabling the support for files in `node_modules`. **Default:** `false`.
    * `generatedCode` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If enabling the support for generated code from `eval` or `new Function`. **Default:** `false`.

This function enables or disables the [Source Map
v3](https://sourcemaps.info/spec.html) support for stack traces.

It provides same features as launching Node.js process with commandline
options `--enable-source-maps`, with additional options to alter the support
for files in `node_modules` or generated codes.

Only source maps in JavaScript files that are loaded after source maps has
been enabled will be parsed and loaded. Preferably, use the commandline
options `--enable-source-maps` to avoid losing track of source maps of modules
loaded before this API call.

#### Class: `module.SourceMap`#

Added in: v13.7.0, v12.17.0

##### `new SourceMap(payload[, { lineLengths }])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.5.0 | Add support for `lineLengths`.  
  
  * `payload` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * `lineLengths` [<number[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Creates a new `sourceMap` instance.

`payload` is an object with keys matching the [Source map v3
format](https://sourcemaps.info/spec.html#h.mofvlxcwqzej):

  * `file`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `version`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `sources`: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `sourcesContent`: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `names`: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `mappings`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `sourceRoot`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

`lineLengths` is an optional array of the length of each line in the generated
code.

##### `sourceMap.payload`#

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Getter for the payload used to construct the `SourceMap` instance.

##### `sourceMap.findEntry(lineOffset, columnOffset)`#

  * `lineOffset` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The zero-indexed line number offset in the generated source
  * `columnOffset` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The zero-indexed column number offset in the generated source
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Given a line offset and column offset in the generated source file, returns an
object representing the SourceMap range in the original file if found, or an
empty object if not.

The object returned contains the following keys:

  * generatedLine: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The line offset of the start of the range in the generated source
  * generatedColumn: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The column offset of start of the range in the generated source
  * originalSource: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The file name of the original source, as reported in the SourceMap
  * originalLine: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The line offset of the start of the range in the original source
  * originalColumn: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The column offset of start of the range in the original source
  * name: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The returned value represents the raw range as it appears in the SourceMap,
based on zero-indexed offsets, _not_ 1-indexed line and column numbers as they
appear in Error messages and CallSite objects.

To get the corresponding 1-indexed line and column numbers from a lineNumber
and columnNumber as they are reported by Error stacks and CallSite objects,
use `sourceMap.findOrigin(lineNumber, columnNumber)`

##### `sourceMap.findOrigin(lineNumber, columnNumber)`#

Added in: v20.4.0, v18.18.0

  * `lineNumber` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The 1-indexed line number of the call site in the generated source
  * `columnNumber` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The 1-indexed column number of the call site in the generated source
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Given a 1-indexed `lineNumber` and `columnNumber` from a call site in the
generated source, find the corresponding call site location in the original
source.

If the `lineNumber` and `columnNumber` provided are not found in any source
map, then an empty object is returned. Otherwise, the returned object contains
the following keys:

  * name: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The name of the range in the source map, if one was provided
  * fileName: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The file name of the original source, as reported in the SourceMap
  * lineNumber: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The 1-indexed lineNumber of the corresponding call site in the original source
  * columnNumber: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The 1-indexed columnNumber of the corresponding call site in the original source

## Modules: Packages#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.13.0, v12.20.0 | Add support for `"exports"` patterns.  
v14.6.0, v12.19.0 | Add package `"imports"` field.  
v13.7.0, v12.17.0 | Unflag conditional exports.  
v13.7.0, v12.16.0 | Remove the `--experimental-conditional-exports` option. In 12.16.0, conditional exports are still behind `--experimental-modules`.  
v13.6.0, v12.16.0 | Unflag self-referencing a package using its name.  
v12.7.0 | Introduce `"exports"` `package.json` field as a more powerful alternative to the classic `"main"` field.  
v12.0.0 | Add support for ES modules using `.js` file extension via `package.json` `"type"` field.  
  
### Introduction#

A package is a folder tree described by a `package.json` file. The package
consists of the folder containing the `package.json` file and all subfolders
until the next folder containing another `package.json` file, or a folder
named `node_modules`.

This page provides guidance for package authors writing `package.json` files
along with a reference for the `package.json` fields defined by Node.js.

### Determining module system#

#### Introduction#

Node.js will treat the following as [ES modules](esm.html) when passed to
`node` as the initial input, or when referenced by `import` statements or
`import()` expressions:

  * Files with an `.mjs` extension.

  * Files with a `.js` extension when the nearest parent `package.json` file contains a top-level `"type"` field with a value of `"module"`.

  * Strings passed in as an argument to `--eval`, or piped to `node` via `STDIN`, with the flag `--input-type=module`.

  * Code containing syntax only successfully parsed as [ES modules](esm.html), such as `import` or `export` statements or `import.meta`, with no explicit marker of how it should be interpreted. Explicit markers are `.mjs` or `.cjs` extensions, `package.json` `"type"` fields with either `"module"` or `"commonjs"` values, or the `--input-type` flag. Dynamic `import()` expressions are supported in either CommonJS or ES modules and would not force a file to be treated as an ES module. See Syntax detection.

Node.js will treat the following as [CommonJS](modules.html) when passed to
`node` as the initial input, or when referenced by `import` statements or
`import()` expressions:

  * Files with a `.cjs` extension.

  * Files with a `.js` extension when the nearest parent `package.json` file contains a top-level field `"type"` with a value of `"commonjs"`.

  * Strings passed in as an argument to `--eval` or `--print`, or piped to `node` via `STDIN`, with the flag `--input-type=commonjs`.

  * Files with a `.js` extension with no parent `package.json` file or where the nearest parent `package.json` file lacks a `type` field, and where the code can evaluate successfully as CommonJS. In other words, Node.js tries to run such "ambiguous" files as CommonJS first, and will retry evaluating them as ES modules if the evaluation as CommonJS fails because the parser found ES module syntax.

Writing ES module syntax in "ambiguous" files incurs a performance cost, and
therefore it is encouraged that authors be explicit wherever possible. In
particular, package authors should always include the `"type"` field in their
`package.json` files, even in packages where all sources are CommonJS. Being
explicit about the `type` of the package will future-proof the package in case
the default type of Node.js ever changes, and it will also make things easier
for build tools and loaders to determine how the files in the package should
be interpreted.

#### Syntax detection#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.7.0 | Syntax detection is enabled by default.  
v21.1.0, v20.10.0 | Added in: v21.1.0, v20.10.0  
  
Stability: 1.2 - Release candidate

Node.js will inspect the source code of ambiguous input to determine whether
it contains ES module syntax; if such syntax is detected, the input will be
treated as an ES module.

Ambiguous input is defined as:

  * Files with a `.js` extension or no extension; and either no controlling `package.json` file or one that lacks a `type` field.
  * String input (`--eval` or `STDIN`) when `--input-type`is not specified.

ES module syntax is defined as syntax that would throw when evaluated as
CommonJS. This includes the following:

  * `import` statements (but _not_ `import()` expressions, which are valid in CommonJS).
  * `export` statements.
  * `import.meta` references.
  * `await` at the top level of a module.
  * Lexical redeclarations of the CommonJS wrapper variables (`require`, `module`, `exports`, `__dirname`, `__filename`).

#### Modules loaders#

Node.js has two systems for resolving a specifier and loading modules.

There is the CommonJS module loader:

  * It is fully synchronous.
  * It is responsible for handling `require()` calls.
  * It is monkey patchable.
  * It supports folders as modules.
  * When resolving a specifier, if no exact match is found, it will try to add extensions (`.js`, `.json`, and finally `.node`) and then attempt to resolve folders as modules.
  * It treats `.json` as JSON text files.
  * `.node` files are interpreted as compiled addon modules loaded with `process.dlopen()`.
  * It treats all files that lack `.json` or `.node` extensions as JavaScript text files.
  * It can only be used to load ECMAScript modules from CommonJS modules if the module graph is synchronous (that contains no top-level `await`). When used to load a JavaScript text file that is not an ECMAScript module, the file will be loaded as a CommonJS module.

There is the ECMAScript module loader:

  * It is asynchronous, unless it's being used to load modules for `require()`.
  * It is responsible for handling `import` statements and `import()` expressions.
  * It is not monkey patchable, can be customized using loader hooks.
  * It does not support folders as modules, directory indexes (e.g. `'./startup/index.js'`) must be fully specified.
  * It does no extension searching. A file extension must be provided when the specifier is a relative or absolute file URL.
  * It can load JSON modules, but an import type attribute is required.
  * It accepts only `.js`, `.mjs`, and `.cjs` extensions for JavaScript text files.
  * It can be used to load JavaScript CommonJS modules. Such modules are passed through the `cjs-module-lexer` to try to identify named exports, which are available if they can be determined through static analysis. Imported CommonJS modules have their URLs converted to absolute paths and are then loaded via the CommonJS module loader.

#### `package.json` and file extensions#

Within a package, the `package.json` `"type"` field defines how Node.js should
interpret `.js` files. If a `package.json` file does not have a `"type"`
field, `.js` files are treated as [CommonJS](modules.html).

A `package.json` `"type"` value of `"module"` tells Node.js to interpret `.js`
files within that package as using [ES module](esm.html) syntax.

The `"type"` field applies not only to initial entry points (`node my-app.js`)
but also to files referenced by `import` statements and `import()`
expressions.

    
    
    // my-app.js, treated as an ES module because there is a package.json
    // file in the same folder with "type": "module".
    
    import './startup/init.js';
    // Loaded as ES module since ./startup contains no package.json file,
    // and therefore inherits the "type" value from one level up.
    
    import 'commonjs-package';
    // Loaded as CommonJS since ./node_modules/commonjs-package/package.json
    // lacks a "type" field or contains "type": "commonjs".
    
    import './node_modules/commonjs-package/index.js';
    // Loaded as CommonJS since ./node_modules/commonjs-package/package.json
    // lacks a "type" field or contains "type": "commonjs". copy

Files ending with `.mjs` are always loaded as [ES modules](esm.html)
regardless of the nearest parent `package.json`.

Files ending with `.cjs` are always loaded as [CommonJS](modules.html)
regardless of the nearest parent `package.json`.

    
    
    import './legacy-file.cjs';
    // Loaded as CommonJS since .cjs is always loaded as CommonJS.
    
    import 'commonjs-package/src/index.mjs';
    // Loaded as ES module since .mjs is always loaded as ES module. copy

The `.mjs` and `.cjs` extensions can be used to mix types within the same
package:

  * Within a `"type": "module"` package, Node.js can be instructed to interpret a particular file as [CommonJS](modules.html) by naming it with a `.cjs` extension (since both `.js` and `.mjs` files are treated as ES modules within a `"module"` package).

  * Within a `"type": "commonjs"` package, Node.js can be instructed to interpret a particular file as an [ES module](esm.html) by naming it with an `.mjs` extension (since both `.js` and `.cjs` files are treated as CommonJS within a `"commonjs"` package).

#### `--input-type` flag#

Added in: v12.0.0

Strings passed in as an argument to `--eval` (or `-e`), or piped to `node` via
`STDIN`, are treated as [ES modules](esm.html) when the `--input-type=module`
flag is set.

    
    
    node --input-type=module --eval "import { sep } from 'node:path'; console.log(sep);"
    
    echo "import { sep } from 'node:path'; console.log(sep);" | node --input-type=module copy

For completeness there is also `--input-type=commonjs`, for explicitly running
string input as CommonJS. This is the default behavior if `--input-type` is
unspecified.

### Determining package manager#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

While all Node.js projects are expected to be installable by all package
managers once published, their development teams are often required to use one
specific package manager. To make this process easier, Node.js ships with a
tool called [Corepack](corepack.html) that aims to make all package managers
transparently available in your environment - provided you have Node.js
installed.

By default Corepack won't enforce any specific package manager and will use
the generic "Last Known Good" versions associated with each Node.js release,
but you can improve this experience by setting the `"packageManager"` field in
your project's `package.json`.

### Package entry points#

In a package's `package.json` file, two fields can define entry points for a
package: `"main"` and `"exports"`. Both fields apply to both ES module and
CommonJS module entry points.

The `"main"` field is supported in all versions of Node.js, but its
capabilities are limited: it only defines the main entry point of the package.

The `"exports"` provides a modern alternative to `"main"` allowing multiple
entry points to be defined, conditional entry resolution support between
environments, and **preventing any other entry points besides those defined
in`"exports"`**. This encapsulation allows module authors to clearly define
the public interface for their package.

For new packages targeting the currently supported versions of Node.js, the
`"exports"` field is recommended. For packages supporting Node.js 10 and
below, the `"main"` field is required. If both `"exports"` and `"main"` are
defined, the `"exports"` field takes precedence over `"main"` in supported
versions of Node.js.

Conditional exports can be used within `"exports"` to define different package
entry points per environment, including whether the package is referenced via
`require` or via `import`. For more information about supporting both CommonJS
and ES modules in a single package please consult the dual CommonJS/ES module
packages section.

Existing packages introducing the `"exports"` field will prevent consumers of
the package from using any entry points that are not defined, including the
`package.json` (e.g. `require('your-package/package.json')`). **This will
likely be a breaking change.**

To make the introduction of `"exports"` non-breaking, ensure that every
previously supported entry point is exported. It is best to explicitly specify
entry points so that the package's public API is well-defined. For example, a
project that previously exported `main`, `lib`, `feature`, and the
`package.json` could use the following `package.exports`:

    
    
    {
      "name": "my-package",
      "exports": {
        ".": "./lib/index.js",
        "./lib": "./lib/index.js",
        "./lib/index": "./lib/index.js",
        "./lib/index.js": "./lib/index.js",
        "./feature": "./feature/index.js",
        "./feature/index": "./feature/index.js",
        "./feature/index.js": "./feature/index.js",
        "./package.json": "./package.json"
      }
    } copy

Alternatively a project could choose to export entire folders both with and
without extensioned subpaths using export patterns:

    
    
    {
      "name": "my-package",
      "exports": {
        ".": "./lib/index.js",
        "./lib": "./lib/index.js",
        "./lib/*": "./lib/*.js",
        "./lib/*.js": "./lib/*.js",
        "./feature": "./feature/index.js",
        "./feature/*": "./feature/*.js",
        "./feature/*.js": "./feature/*.js",
        "./package.json": "./package.json"
      }
    } copy

With the above providing backwards-compatibility for any minor package
versions, a future major change for the package can then properly restrict the
exports to only the specific feature exports exposed:

    
    
    {
      "name": "my-package",
      "exports": {
        ".": "./lib/index.js",
        "./feature/*.js": "./feature/*.js",
        "./feature/internal/*": null
      }
    } copy

#### Main entry point export#

When writing a new package, it is recommended to use the `"exports"` field:

    
    
    {
      "exports": "./index.js"
    } copy

When the `"exports"` field is defined, all subpaths of the package are
encapsulated and no longer available to importers. For example,
`require('pkg/subpath.js')` throws an `ERR_PACKAGE_PATH_NOT_EXPORTED` error.

This encapsulation of exports provides more reliable guarantees about package
interfaces for tools and when handling semver upgrades for a package. It is
not a strong encapsulation since a direct require of any absolute subpath of
the package such as `require('/path/to/node_modules/pkg/subpath.js')` will
still load `subpath.js`.

All currently supported versions of Node.js and modern build tools support the
`"exports"` field. For projects using an older version of Node.js or a related
build tool, compatibility can be achieved by including the `"main"` field
alongside `"exports"` pointing to the same module:

    
    
    {
      "main": "./index.js",
      "exports": "./index.js"
    } copy

#### Subpath exports#

Added in: v12.7.0

When using the `"exports"` field, custom subpaths can be defined along with
the main entry point by treating the main entry point as the `"."` subpath:

    
    
    {
      "exports": {
        ".": "./index.js",
        "./submodule.js": "./src/submodule.js"
      }
    } copy

Now only the defined subpath in `"exports"` can be imported by a consumer:

    
    
    import submodule from 'es-module-package/submodule.js';
    // Loads ./node_modules/es-module-package/src/submodule.js copy

While other subpaths will error:

    
    
    import submodule from 'es-module-package/private-module.js';
    // Throws ERR_PACKAGE_PATH_NOT_EXPORTED copy

##### Extensions in subpaths#

Package authors should provide either extensioned (`import 'pkg/subpath.js'`)
or extensionless (`import 'pkg/subpath'`) subpaths in their exports. This
ensures that there is only one subpath for each exported module so that all
dependents import the same consistent specifier, keeping the package contract
clear for consumers and simplifying package subpath completions.

Traditionally, packages tended to use the extensionless style, which has the
benefits of readability and of masking the true path of the file within the
package.

With [import maps](https://github.com/WICG/import-maps) now providing a
standard for package resolution in browsers and other JavaScript runtimes,
using the extensionless style can result in bloated import map definitions.
Explicit file extensions can avoid this issue by enabling the import map to
utilize a [packages folder mapping](https://github.com/WICG/import-
maps#packages-via-trailing-slashes) to map multiple subpaths where possible
instead of a separate map entry per package subpath export. This also mirrors
the requirement of using the full specifier path in relative and absolute
import specifiers.

#### Exports sugar#

Added in: v12.11.0

If the `"."` export is the only export, the `"exports"` field provides sugar
for this case being the direct `"exports"` field value.

    
    
    {
      "exports": {
        ".": "./index.js"
      }
    } copy

can be written:

    
    
    {
      "exports": "./index.js"
    } copy

#### Subpath imports#

Added in: v14.6.0, v12.19.0

In addition to the `"exports"` field, there is a package `"imports"` field to
create private mappings that only apply to import specifiers from within the
package itself.

Entries in the `"imports"` field must always start with `#` to ensure they are
disambiguated from external package specifiers.

For example, the imports field can be used to gain the benefits of conditional
exports for internal modules:

    
    
    // package.json
    {
      "imports": {
        "#dep": {
          "node": "dep-node-native",
          "default": "./dep-polyfill.js"
        }
      },
      "dependencies": {
        "dep-node-native": "^1.0.0"
      }
    } copy

where `import '#dep'` does not get the resolution of the external package
`dep-node-native` (including its exports in turn), and instead gets the local
file `./dep-polyfill.js` relative to the package in other environments.

Unlike the `"exports"` field, the `"imports"` field permits mapping to
external packages.

The resolution rules for the imports field are otherwise analogous to the
exports field.

#### Subpath patterns#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.10.0, v14.19.0 | Support pattern trailers in "imports" field.  
v16.9.0, v14.19.0 | Support pattern trailers.  
v14.13.0, v12.20.0 | Added in: v14.13.0, v12.20.0  
  
For packages with a small number of exports or imports, we recommend
explicitly listing each exports subpath entry. But for packages that have
large numbers of subpaths, this might cause `package.json` bloat and
maintenance issues.

For these use cases, subpath export patterns can be used instead:

    
    
    // ./node_modules/es-module-package/package.json
    {
      "exports": {
        "./features/*.js": "./src/features/*.js"
      },
      "imports": {
        "#internal/*.js": "./src/internal/*.js"
      }
    } copy

**`*` maps expose nested subpaths as it is a string replacement syntax only.**

All instances of `*` on the right hand side will then be replaced with this
value, including if it contains any `/` separators.

    
    
    import featureX from 'es-module-package/features/x.js';
    // Loads ./node_modules/es-module-package/src/features/x.js
    
    import featureY from 'es-module-package/features/y/y.js';
    // Loads ./node_modules/es-module-package/src/features/y/y.js
    
    import internalZ from '#internal/z.js';
    // Loads ./node_modules/es-module-package/src/internal/z.js copy

This is a direct static matching and replacement without any special handling
for file extensions. Including the `"*.js"` on both sides of the mapping
restricts the exposed package exports to only JS files.

The property of exports being statically enumerable is maintained with exports
patterns since the individual exports for a package can be determined by
treating the right hand side target pattern as a `**` glob against the list of
files within the package. Because `node_modules` paths are forbidden in
exports targets, this expansion is dependent on only the files of the package
itself.

To exclude private subfolders from patterns, `null` targets can be used:

    
    
    // ./node_modules/es-module-package/package.json
    {
      "exports": {
        "./features/*.js": "./src/features/*.js",
        "./features/private-internal/*": null
      }
    } copy
    
    
    import featureInternal from 'es-module-package/features/private-internal/m.js';
    // Throws: ERR_PACKAGE_PATH_NOT_EXPORTED
    
    import featureX from 'es-module-package/features/x.js';
    // Loads ./node_modules/es-module-package/src/features/x.js copy

#### Conditional exports#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.7.0, v12.16.0 | Unflag conditional exports.  
v13.2.0, v12.16.0 | Added in: v13.2.0, v12.16.0  
  
Conditional exports provide a way to map to different paths depending on
certain conditions. They are supported for both CommonJS and ES module
imports.

For example, a package that wants to provide different ES module exports for
`require()` and `import` can be written:

    
    
    // package.json
    {
      "exports": {
        "import": "./index-module.js",
        "require": "./index-require.cjs"
      },
      "type": "module"
    } copy

Node.js implements the following conditions, listed in order from most
specific to least specific as conditions should be defined:

  * `"node-addons"` \- similar to `"node"` and matches for any Node.js environment. This condition can be used to provide an entry point which uses native C++ addons as opposed to an entry point which is more universal and doesn't rely on native addons. This condition can be disabled via the `--no-addons` flag.
  * `"node"` \- matches for any Node.js environment. Can be a CommonJS or ES module file. _In most cases explicitly calling out the Node.js platform is not necessary._
  * `"import"` \- matches when the package is loaded via `import` or `import()`, or via any top-level import or resolve operation by the ECMAScript module loader. Applies regardless of the module format of the target file. _Always mutually exclusive with`"require"`._
  * `"require"` \- matches when the package is loaded via `require()`. The referenced file should be loadable with `require()` although the condition matches regardless of the module format of the target file. Expected formats include CommonJS, JSON, native addons, and ES modules. _Always mutually exclusive with`"import"`._
  * `"module-sync"` \- matches no matter the package is loaded via `import`, `import()` or `require()`. The format is expected to be ES modules that does not contain top-level await in its module graph - if it does, `ERR_REQUIRE_ASYNC_MODULE` will be thrown when the module is `require()`-ed.
  * `"default"` \- the generic fallback that always matches. Can be a CommonJS or ES module file. _This condition should always come last._

Within the `"exports"` object, key order is significant. During condition
matching, earlier entries have higher priority and take precedence over later
entries. _The general rule is that conditions should be from most specific to
least specific in object order_.

Using the `"import"` and `"require"` conditions can lead to some hazards,
which are further explained in the dual CommonJS/ES module packages section.

The `"node-addons"` condition can be used to provide an entry point which uses
native C++ addons. However, this condition can be disabled via the `--no-
addons` flag. When using `"node-addons"`, it's recommended to treat
`"default"` as an enhancement that provides a more universal entry point, e.g.
using WebAssembly instead of a native addon.

Conditional exports can also be extended to exports subpaths, for example:

    
    
    {
      "exports": {
        ".": "./index.js",
        "./feature.js": {
          "node": "./feature-node.js",
          "default": "./feature.js"
        }
      }
    } copy

Defines a package where `require('pkg/feature.js')` and `import
'pkg/feature.js'` could provide different implementations between Node.js and
other JS environments.

When using environment branches, always include a `"default"` condition where
possible. Providing a `"default"` condition ensures that any unknown JS
environments are able to use this universal implementation, which helps avoid
these JS environments from having to pretend to be existing environments in
order to support packages with conditional exports. For this reason, using
`"node"` and `"default"` condition branches is usually preferable to using
`"node"` and `"browser"` condition branches.

#### Nested conditions#

In addition to direct mappings, Node.js also supports nested condition
objects.

For example, to define a package that only has dual mode entry points for use
in Node.js but not the browser:

    
    
    {
      "exports": {
        "node": {
          "import": "./feature-node.mjs",
          "require": "./feature-node.cjs"
        },
        "default": "./feature.mjs"
      }
    } copy

Conditions continue to be matched in order as with flat conditions. If a
nested condition does not have any mapping it will continue checking the
remaining conditions of the parent condition. In this way nested conditions
behave analogously to nested JavaScript `if` statements.

#### Resolving user conditions#

Added in: v14.9.0, v12.19.0

When running Node.js, custom user conditions can be added with the
`--conditions` flag:

    
    
    node --conditions=development index.js copy

which would then resolve the `"development"` condition in package imports and
exports, while resolving the existing `"node"`, `"node-addons"`, `"default"`,
`"import"`, and `"require"` conditions as appropriate.

Any number of custom conditions can be set with repeat flags.

Typical conditions should only contain alphanumerical characters, using ":",
"-", or "=" as separators if necessary. Anything else may run into compability
issues outside of node.

In node, conditions have very few restrictions, but specifically these
include:

  1. They must contain at least one character.
  2. They cannot start with "." since they may appear in places that also allow relative paths.
  3. They cannot contain "," since they may be parsed as a comma-separated list by some CLI tools.
  4. They cannot be integer property keys like "10" since that can have unexpected effects on property key ordering for JS objects.

#### Community Conditions Definitions#

Condition strings other than the `"import"`, `"require"`, `"node"`, `"module-
sync"`, `"node-addons"` and `"default"` conditions implemented in Node.js core
are ignored by default.

Other platforms may implement other conditions and user conditions can be
enabled in Node.js via the `--conditions` / `-C` flag.

Since custom package conditions require clear definitions to ensure correct
usage, a list of common known package conditions and their strict definitions
is provided below to assist with ecosystem coordination.

  * `"types"` \- can be used by typing systems to resolve the typing file for the given export. _This condition should always be included first._
  * `"browser"` \- any web browser environment.
  * `"development"` \- can be used to define a development-only environment entry point, for example to provide additional debugging context such as better error messages when running in a development mode. _Must always be mutually exclusive with`"production"`._
  * `"production"` \- can be used to define a production environment entry point. _Must always be mutually exclusive with`"development"`._

For other runtimes, platform-specific condition key definitions are maintained
by the [WinterCG](https://wintercg.org/) in the [Runtime
Keys](https://runtime-keys.proposal.wintercg.org/) proposal specification.

New conditions definitions may be added to this list by creating a pull
request to the [Node.js documentation for this
section](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/HEAD/doc/api/packages.md#conditions-
definitions). The requirements for listing a new condition definition here are
that:

  * The definition should be clear and unambiguous for all implementers.
  * The use case for why the condition is needed should be clearly justified.
  * There should exist sufficient existing implementation usage.
  * The condition name should not conflict with another condition definition or condition in wide usage.
  * The listing of the condition definition should provide a coordination benefit to the ecosystem that wouldn't otherwise be possible. For example, this would not necessarily be the case for company-specific or application-specific conditions.
  * The condition should be such that a Node.js user would expect it to be in Node.js core documentation. The `"types"` condition is a good example: It doesn't really belong in the [Runtime Keys](https://runtime-keys.proposal.wintercg.org/) proposal but is a good fit here in the Node.js docs.

The above definitions may be moved to a dedicated conditions registry in due
course.

#### Self-referencing a package using its name#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.6.0, v12.16.0 | Unflag self-referencing a package using its name.  
v13.1.0, v12.16.0 | Added in: v13.1.0, v12.16.0  
  
Within a package, the values defined in the package's `package.json`
`"exports"` field can be referenced via the package's name. For example,
assuming the `package.json` is:

    
    
    // package.json
    {
      "name": "a-package",
      "exports": {
        ".": "./index.mjs",
        "./foo.js": "./foo.js"
      }
    } copy

Then any module _in that package_ can reference an export in the package
itself:

    
    
    // ./a-module.mjs
    import { something } from 'a-package'; // Imports "something" from ./index.mjs. copy

Self-referencing is available only if `package.json` has `"exports"`, and will
allow importing only what that `"exports"` (in the `package.json`) allows. So
the code below, given the previous package, will generate a runtime error:

    
    
    // ./another-module.mjs
    
    // Imports "another" from ./m.mjs. Fails because
    // the "package.json" "exports" field
    // does not provide an export named "./m.mjs".
    import { another } from 'a-package/m.mjs'; copy

Self-referencing is also available when using `require`, both in an ES module,
and in a CommonJS one. For example, this code will also work:

    
    
    // ./a-module.js
    const { something } = require('a-package/foo.js'); // Loads from ./foo.js. copy

Finally, self-referencing also works with scoped packages. For example, this
code will also work:

    
    
    // package.json
    {
      "name": "@my/package",
      "exports": "./index.js"
    } copy
    
    
    // ./index.js
    module.exports = 42; copy
    
    
    // ./other.js
    console.log(require('@my/package')); copy
    
    
    $ node other.js
    42 copy

### Dual CommonJS/ES module packages#

See [the package examples repository](https://github.com/nodejs/package-
examples) for details.

### Node.js `package.json` field definitions#

This section describes the fields used by the Node.js runtime. Other tools
(such as [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/configuring-npm/package-json))
use additional fields which are ignored by Node.js and not documented here.

The following fields in `package.json` files are used in Node.js:

  * `"name"` \- Relevant when using named imports within a package. Also used by package managers as the name of the package.
  * `"main"` \- The default module when loading the package, if exports is not specified, and in versions of Node.js prior to the introduction of exports.
  * `"packageManager"` \- The package manager recommended when contributing to the package. Leveraged by the [Corepack](corepack.html) shims.
  * `"type"` \- The package type determining whether to load `.js` files as CommonJS or ES modules.
  * `"exports"` \- Package exports and conditional exports. When present, limits which submodules can be loaded from within the package.
  * `"imports"` \- Package imports, for use by modules within the package itself.

#### `"name"`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.6.0, v12.16.0 | Remove the `--experimental-resolve-self` option.  
v13.1.0, v12.16.0 | Added in: v13.1.0, v12.16.0  
  
  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

    
    
    {
      "name": "package-name"
    } copy

The `"name"` field defines your package's name. Publishing to the _npm_
registry requires a name that satisfies [certain
requirements](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#name).

The `"name"` field can be used in addition to the `"exports"` field to self-
reference a package using its name.

#### `"main"`#

Added in: v0.4.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

    
    
    {
      "main": "./index.js"
    } copy

The `"main"` field defines the entry point of a package when imported by name
via a `node_modules` lookup. Its value is a path.

When a package has an `"exports"` field, this will take precedence over the
`"main"` field when importing the package by name.

It also defines the script that is used when the package directory is loaded
via `require()`.

    
    
    // This resolves to ./path/to/directory/index.js.
    require('./path/to/directory'); copy

#### `"packageManager"`#

Added in: v16.9.0, v14.19.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

    
    
    {
      "packageManager": "<package manager name>@<version>"
    } copy

The `"packageManager"` field defines which package manager is expected to be
used when working on the current project. It can be set to any of the
supported package managers, and will ensure that your teams use the exact same
package manager versions without having to install anything else other than
Node.js.

This field is currently experimental and needs to be opted-in; check the
[Corepack](corepack.html) page for details about the procedure.

#### `"type"`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.2.0, v12.17.0 | Unflag `--experimental-modules`.  
v12.0.0 | Added in: v12.0.0  
  
  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `"type"` field defines the module format that Node.js uses for all `.js`
files that have that `package.json` file as their nearest parent.

Files ending with `.js` are loaded as ES modules when the nearest parent
`package.json` file contains a top-level field `"type"` with a value of
`"module"`.

The nearest parent `package.json` is defined as the first `package.json` found
when searching in the current folder, that folder's parent, and so on up until
a node_modules folder or the volume root is reached.

    
    
    // package.json
    {
      "type": "module"
    } copy
    
    
    # In same folder as preceding package.json
    node my-app.js # Runs as ES module copy

If the nearest parent `package.json` lacks a `"type"` field, or contains
`"type": "commonjs"`, `.js` files are treated as [CommonJS](modules.html). If
the volume root is reached and no `package.json` is found, `.js` files are
treated as [CommonJS](modules.html).

`import` statements of `.js` files are treated as ES modules if the nearest
parent `package.json` contains `"type": "module"`.

    
    
    // my-app.js, part of the same example as above
    import './startup.js'; // Loaded as ES module because of package.json copy

Regardless of the value of the `"type"` field, `.mjs` files are always treated
as ES modules and `.cjs` files are always treated as CommonJS.

#### `"exports"`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.13.0, v12.20.0 | Add support for `"exports"` patterns.  
v13.7.0, v12.17.0 | Unflag conditional exports.  
v13.7.0, v12.16.0 | Implement logical conditional exports ordering.  
v13.7.0, v12.16.0 | Remove the `--experimental-conditional-exports` option. In 12.16.0, conditional exports are still behind `--experimental-modules`.  
v13.2.0, v12.16.0 | Implement conditional exports.  
v12.7.0 | Added in: v12.7.0  
  
  * Type: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

    
    
    {
      "exports": "./index.js"
    } copy

The `"exports"` field allows defining the entry points of a package when
imported by name loaded either via a `node_modules` lookup or a self-reference
to its own name. It is supported in Node.js 12+ as an alternative to the
`"main"` that can support defining subpath exports and conditional exports
while encapsulating internal unexported modules.

Conditional Exports can also be used within `"exports"` to define different
package entry points per environment, including whether the package is
referenced via `require` or via `import`.

All paths defined in the `"exports"` must be relative file URLs starting with
`./`.

#### `"imports"`#

Added in: v14.6.0, v12.19.0

  * Type: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

    
    
    // package.json
    {
      "imports": {
        "#dep": {
          "node": "dep-node-native",
          "default": "./dep-polyfill.js"
        }
      },
      "dependencies": {
        "dep-node-native": "^1.0.0"
      }
    } copy

Entries in the imports field must be strings starting with `#`.

Package imports permit mapping to external packages.

This field defines subpath imports for the current package.

## Modules: TypeScript#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.6.0 | Type stripping is enabled by default.  
v22.7.0 | Added `--experimental-transform-types` flag.  
  
Stability: 1.1 - Active development

### Enabling#

There are two ways to enable runtime TypeScript support in Node.js:

  1. For full support of all of TypeScript's syntax and features, including using any version of TypeScript, use a third-party package.

  2. For lightweight support, you can use the built-in support for type stripping.

### Full TypeScript support#

To use TypeScript with full support for all TypeScript features, including
`tsconfig.json`, you can use a third-party package. These instructions use
[`tsx`](https://tsx.is/) as an example but there are many other similar
libraries available.

  1. Install the package as a development dependency using whatever package manager you're using for your project. For example, with `npm`:
    
        npm install --save-dev tsx copy

  2. Then you can run your TypeScript code via:
    
        npx tsx your-file.ts copy

Or alternatively, you can run with `node` via:

    
        node --import=tsx your-file.ts copy

### Type stripping#

Added in: v22.6.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

By default Node.js will execute TypeScript files that contains only erasable
TypeScript syntax. Node.js will replace TypeScript syntax with whitespace, and
no type checking is performed. To enable the transformation of non erasable
TypeScript syntax, which requires JavaScript code generation, such as `enum`
declarations, parameter properties use the flag `--experimental-transform-
types`. To disable this feature, use the flag `--no-experimental-strip-types`.

Node.js ignores `tsconfig.json` files and therefore features that depend on
settings within `tsconfig.json`, such as paths or converting newer JavaScript
syntax to older standards, are intentionally unsupported. To get full
TypeScript support, see Full TypeScript support.

The type stripping feature is designed to be lightweight. By intentionally not
supporting syntaxes that require JavaScript code generation, and by replacing
inline types with whitespace, Node.js can run TypeScript code without the need
for source maps.

Type stripping is compatible with most versions of TypeScript but we recommend
version 5.8 or newer with the following `tsconfig.json` settings:

    
    
    {
      "compilerOptions": {
         "noEmit": true, // Optional - see note below
         "target": "esnext",
         "module": "nodenext",
         "rewriteRelativeImportExtensions": true,
         "erasableSyntaxOnly": true,
         "verbatimModuleSyntax": true
      }
    } copy

> [!NOTE] Use the `noEmit` option if you intend to only execute `*.ts` files,
> for example a build script. You won't need this flag if you intend to
> distribute `*.js` files.

#### Determining module system#

Node.js supports both [CommonJS](modules.html) and [ES Modules](esm.html)
syntax in TypeScript files. Node.js will not convert from one module system to
another; if you want your code to run as an ES module, you must use `import`
and `export` syntax, and if you want your code to run as CommonJS you must use
`require` and `module.exports`.

  * `.ts` files will have their module system determined the same way as `.js` files. To use `import` and `export` syntax, add `"type": "module"` to the nearest parent `package.json`.
  * `.mts` files will always be run as ES modules, similar to `.mjs` files.
  * `.cts` files will always be run as CommonJS modules, similar to `.cjs` files.
  * `.tsx` files are unsupported.

As in JavaScript files, file extensions are mandatory in `import` statements
and `import()` expressions: `import './file.ts'`, not `import './file'`.
Because of backward compatibility, file extensions are also mandatory in
`require()` calls: `require('./file.ts')`, not `require('./file')`, similar to
how the `.cjs` extension is mandatory in `require` calls in CommonJS files.

The `tsconfig.json` option `allowImportingTsExtensions` will allow the
TypeScript compiler `tsc` to type-check files with `import` specifiers that
include the `.ts` extension.

#### TypeScript features#

Since Node.js is only removing inline types, any TypeScript features that
involve _replacing_ TypeScript syntax with new JavaScript syntax will error,
unless the flag `--experimental-transform-types` is passed.

The most prominent features that require transformation are:

  * `Enum` declarations
  * `namespace` with runtime code
  * legacy `module` with runtime code
  * parameter properties
  * import aliases

`namespaces` and `module` that do not contain runtime code are supported. This
example will work correctly:

    
    
    // This namespace is exporting a type
    namespace TypeOnly {
       export type A = string;
    } copy

This will result in `ERR_UNSUPPORTED_TYPESCRIPT_SYNTAX` error:

    
    
    // This namespace is exporting a value
    namespace A {
       export let x = 1
    } copy

Since Decorators are currently a [TC39 Stage 3
proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators) and will soon be
supported by the JavaScript engine, they are not transformed and will result
in a parser error. This is a temporary limitation and will be resolved in the
future.

In addition, Node.js does not read `tsconfig.json` files and does not support
features that depend on settings within `tsconfig.json`, such as paths or
converting newer JavaScript syntax into older standards.

#### Importing types without `type` keyword#

Due to the nature of type stripping, the `type` keyword is necessary to
correctly strip type imports. Without the `type` keyword, Node.js will treat
the import as a value import, which will result in a runtime error. The
tsconfig option
[`verbatimModuleSyntax`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig/#verbatimModuleSyntax)
can be used to match this behavior.

This example will work correctly:

    
    
    import type { Type1, Type2 } from './module.ts';
    import { fn, type FnParams } from './fn.ts'; copy

This will result in a runtime error:

    
    
    import { Type1, Type2 } from './module.ts';
    import { fn, FnParams } from './fn.ts'; copy

#### Non-file forms of input#

Type stripping can be enabled for `--eval` and STDIN. The module system will
be determined by `--input-type`, as it is for JavaScript.

TypeScript syntax is unsupported in the REPL, `--check`, and `inspect`.

#### Source maps#

Since inline types are replaced by whitespace, source maps are unnecessary for
correct line numbers in stack traces; and Node.js does not generate them. When
`--experimental-transform-types` is enabled, source-maps are enabled by
default.

#### Type stripping in dependencies#

To discourage package authors from publishing packages written in TypeScript,
Node.js will by default refuse to handle TypeScript files inside folders under
a `node_modules` path.

#### Paths aliases#

[`tsconfig` "paths"](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig/#paths) won't be
transformed and therefore produce an error. The closest feature available is
subpath imports with the limitation that they need to start with `#`.

## Net#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/net.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/net.js)

The `node:net` module provides an asynchronous network API for creating
stream-based TCP or IPC servers (`net.createServer()`) and clients
(`net.createConnection()`).

It can be accessed using:

    
    
    import net from 'node:net';const net = require('node:net');copy

### IPC support#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.8.0 | Support binding to abstract Unix domain socket path like `\0abstract`. We can bind '\0' for Node.js `< v20.4.0`.  
  
The `node:net` module supports IPC with named pipes on Windows, and Unix
domain sockets on other operating systems.

#### Identifying paths for IPC connections#

`net.connect()`, `net.createConnection()`, `server.listen()`, and
`socket.connect()` take a `path` parameter to identify IPC endpoints.

On Unix, the local domain is also known as the Unix domain. The path is a file
system pathname. It will throw an error when the length of pathname is greater
than the length of `sizeof(sockaddr_un.sun_path)`. Typical values are 107
bytes on Linux and 103 bytes on macOS. If a Node.js API abstraction creates
the Unix domain socket, it will unlink the Unix domain socket as well. For
example, `net.createServer()` may create a Unix domain socket and
`server.close()` will unlink it. But if a user creates the Unix domain socket
outside of these abstractions, the user will need to remove it. The same
applies when a Node.js API creates a Unix domain socket but the program then
crashes. In short, a Unix domain socket will be visible in the file system and
will persist until unlinked. On Linux, You can use Unix abstract socket by
adding `\0` to the beginning of the path, such as `\0abstract`. The path to
the Unix abstract socket is not visible in the file system and it will
disappear automatically when all open references to the socket are closed.

On Windows, the local domain is implemented using a named pipe. The path
_must_ refer to an entry in `\\?\pipe\` or `\\.\pipe\`. Any characters are
permitted, but the latter may do some processing of pipe names, such as
resolving `..` sequences. Despite how it might look, the pipe namespace is
flat. Pipes will _not persist_. They are removed when the last reference to
them is closed. Unlike Unix domain sockets, Windows will close and remove the
pipe when the owning process exits.

JavaScript string escaping requires paths to be specified with extra backslash
escaping such as:

    
    
    net.createServer().listen(
      path.join('\\\\?\\pipe', process.cwd(), 'myctl')); copy

### Class: `net.BlockList`#

Added in: v15.0.0, v14.18.0

The `BlockList` object can be used with some network APIs to specify rules for
disabling inbound or outbound access to specific IP addresses, IP ranges, or
IP subnets.

#### `blockList.addAddress(address[, type])`#

Added in: v15.0.0, v14.18.0

  * `address` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <net.SocketAddress> An IPv4 or IPv6 address.
  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Either `'ipv4'` or `'ipv6'`. **Default:** `'ipv4'`.

Adds a rule to block the given IP address.

#### `blockList.addRange(start, end[, type])`#

Added in: v15.0.0, v14.18.0

  * `start` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <net.SocketAddress> The starting IPv4 or IPv6 address in the range.
  * `end` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <net.SocketAddress> The ending IPv4 or IPv6 address in the range.
  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Either `'ipv4'` or `'ipv6'`. **Default:** `'ipv4'`.

Adds a rule to block a range of IP addresses from `start` (inclusive) to `end`
(inclusive).

#### `blockList.addSubnet(net, prefix[, type])`#

Added in: v15.0.0, v14.18.0

  * `net` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <net.SocketAddress> The network IPv4 or IPv6 address.
  * `prefix` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of CIDR prefix bits. For IPv4, this must be a value between `0` and `32`. For IPv6, this must be between `0` and `128`.
  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Either `'ipv4'` or `'ipv6'`. **Default:** `'ipv4'`.

Adds a rule to block a range of IP addresses specified as a subnet mask.

#### `blockList.check(address[, type])`#

Added in: v15.0.0, v14.18.0

  * `address` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <net.SocketAddress> The IP address to check
  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Either `'ipv4'` or `'ipv6'`. **Default:** `'ipv4'`.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the given IP address matches any of the rules added to the
`BlockList`.

    
    
    const blockList = new net.BlockList();
    blockList.addAddress('123.123.123.123');
    blockList.addRange('10.0.0.1', '10.0.0.10');
    blockList.addSubnet('8592:757c:efae:4e45::', 64, 'ipv6');
    
    console.log(blockList.check('123.123.123.123'));  // Prints: true
    console.log(blockList.check('10.0.0.3'));  // Prints: true
    console.log(blockList.check('222.111.111.222'));  // Prints: false
    
    // IPv6 notation for IPv4 addresses works:
    console.log(blockList.check('::ffff:7b7b:7b7b', 'ipv6')); // Prints: true
    console.log(blockList.check('::ffff:123.123.123.123', 'ipv6')); // Prints: true copy

#### `blockList.rules`#

Added in: v15.0.0, v14.18.0

  * Type: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The list of rules added to the blocklist.

#### `BlockList.isBlockList(value)`#

Added in: v23.4.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Any JS value
  * Returns `true` if the `value` is a `net.BlockList`.

### Class: `net.SocketAddress`#

Added in: v15.14.0, v14.18.0

#### `new net.SocketAddress([options])`#

Added in: v15.14.0, v14.18.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `address` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The network address as either an IPv4 or IPv6 string. **Default** : `'127.0.0.1'` if `family` is `'ipv4'`; `'::'` if `family` is `'ipv6'`.
    * `family` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) One of either `'ipv4'` or `'ipv6'`. **Default** : `'ipv4'`.
    * `flowlabel` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) An IPv6 flow-label used only if `family` is `'ipv6'`.
    * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) An IP port.

#### `socketaddress.address`#

Added in: v15.14.0, v14.18.0

  * Type [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

#### `socketaddress.family`#

Added in: v15.14.0, v14.18.0

  * Type [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Either `'ipv4'` or `'ipv6'`.

#### `socketaddress.flowlabel`#

Added in: v15.14.0, v14.18.0

  * Type [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

#### `socketaddress.port`#

Added in: v15.14.0, v14.18.0

  * Type [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

#### `SocketAddress.parse(input)`#

Added in: v23.4.0

  * `input` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) An input string containing an IP address and optional port, e.g. `123.1.2.3:1234` or `[1::1]:1234`.
  * Returns: <net.SocketAddress> Returns a `SocketAddress` if parsing was successful. Otherwise returns `undefined`.

### Class: `net.Server`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * Extends: <EventEmitter>

This class is used to create a TCP or IPC server.

#### `new net.Server([options][, connectionListener])`#

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) See `net.createServer([options][, connectionListener])`.
  * `connectionListener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Automatically set as a listener for the `'connection'` event.
  * Returns: <net.Server>

`net.Server` is an `EventEmitter` with the following events:

#### Event: `'close'`#

Added in: v0.5.0

Emitted when the server closes. If connections exist, this event is not
emitted until all connections are ended.

#### Event: `'connection'`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * <net.Socket> The connection object

Emitted when a new connection is made. `socket` is an instance of
`net.Socket`.

#### Event: `'error'`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Emitted when an error occurs. Unlike `net.Socket`, the `'close'` event will
**not** be emitted directly following this event unless `server.close()` is
manually called. See the example in discussion of `server.listen()`.

#### Event: `'listening'`#

Added in: v0.1.90

Emitted when the server has been bound after calling `server.listen()`.

#### Event: `'drop'`#

Added in: v18.6.0, v16.17.0

When the number of connections reaches the threshold of
`server.maxConnections`, the server will drop new connections and emit
`'drop'` event instead. If it is a TCP server, the argument is as follows,
otherwise the argument is `undefined`.

  * `data` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The argument passed to event listener. 
    * `localAddress` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Local address.
    * `localPort` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Local port.
    * `localFamily` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Local family.
    * `remoteAddress` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Remote address.
    * `remotePort` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Remote port.
    * `remoteFamily` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Remote IP family. `'IPv4'` or `'IPv6'`.

#### `server.address()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.4.0 | The `family` property now returns a string instead of a number.  
v18.0.0 | The `family` property now returns a number instead of a string.  
v0.1.90 | Added in: v0.1.90  
  
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type)

Returns the bound `address`, the address `family` name, and `port` of the
server as reported by the operating system if listening on an IP socket
(useful to find which port was assigned when getting an OS-assigned address):
`{ port: 12346, family: 'IPv4', address: '127.0.0.1' }`.

For a server listening on a pipe or Unix domain socket, the name is returned
as a string.

    
    
    const server = net.createServer((socket) => {
      socket.end('goodbye\n');
    }).on('error', (err) => {
      // Handle errors here.
      throw err;
    });
    
    // Grab an arbitrary unused port.
    server.listen(() => {
      console.log('opened server on', server.address());
    }); copy

`server.address()` returns `null` before the `'listening'` event has been
emitted or after calling `server.close()`.

#### `server.close([callback])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Called when the server is closed.
  * Returns: <net.Server>

Stops the server from accepting new connections and keeps existing
connections. This function is asynchronous, the server is finally closed when
all connections are ended and the server emits a `'close'` event. The optional
`callback` will be called once the `'close'` event occurs. Unlike that event,
it will be called with an `Error` as its only argument if the server was not
open when it was closed.

#### `server[Symbol.asyncDispose]()`#

Added in: v20.5.0, v18.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Calls `server.close()` and returns a promise that fulfills when the server has
closed.

#### `server.getConnections(callback)`#

Added in: v0.9.7

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <net.Server>

Asynchronously get the number of concurrent connections on the server. Works
when sockets were sent to forks.

Callback should take two arguments `err` and `count`.

#### `server.listen()`#

Start a server listening for connections. A `net.Server` can be a TCP or an
IPC server depending on what it listens to.

Possible signatures:

  * `server.listen(handle[, backlog][, callback])`
  * `server.listen(options[, callback])`
  * `server.listen(path[, backlog][, callback])` for IPC servers
  * `server.listen([port[, host[, backlog]]][, callback])` for TCP servers

This function is asynchronous. When the server starts listening, the
`'listening'` event will be emitted. The last parameter `callback` will be
added as a listener for the `'listening'` event.

All `listen()` methods can take a `backlog` parameter to specify the maximum
length of the queue of pending connections. The actual length will be
determined by the OS through sysctl settings such as `tcp_max_syn_backlog` and
`somaxconn` on Linux. The default value of this parameter is 511 (not 512).

All `net.Socket` are set to `SO_REUSEADDR` (see
[`socket(7)`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/socket.7.html) for
details).

The `server.listen()` method can be called again if and only if there was an
error during the first `server.listen()` call or `server.close()` has been
called. Otherwise, an `ERR_SERVER_ALREADY_LISTEN` error will be thrown.

One of the most common errors raised when listening is `EADDRINUSE`. This
happens when another server is already listening on the requested
`port`/`path`/`handle`. One way to handle this would be to retry after a
certain amount of time:

    
    
    server.on('error', (e) => {
      if (e.code === 'EADDRINUSE') {
        console.error('Address in use, retrying...');
        setTimeout(() => {
          server.close();
          server.listen(PORT, HOST);
        }, 1000);
      }
    }); copy

##### `server.listen(handle[, backlog][, callback])`#

Added in: v0.5.10

  * `handle` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * `backlog` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Common parameter of `server.listen()` functions
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <net.Server>

Start a server listening for connections on a given `handle` that has already
been bound to a port, a Unix domain socket, or a Windows named pipe.

The `handle` object can be either a server, a socket (anything with an
underlying `_handle` member), or an object with an `fd` member that is a valid
file descriptor.

Listening on a file descriptor is not supported on Windows.

##### `server.listen(options[, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.1.0 | The `reusePort` option is supported.  
v15.6.0 | AbortSignal support was added.  
v11.4.0 | The `ipv6Only` option is supported.  
v0.11.14 | Added in: v0.11.14  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Required. Supports the following properties: 
    * `backlog` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Common parameter of `server.listen()` functions.
    * `exclusive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`
    * `host` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `ipv6Only` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) For TCP servers, setting `ipv6Only` to `true` will disable dual-stack support, i.e., binding to host `::` won't make `0.0.0.0` be bound. **Default:** `false`.
    * `reusePort` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) For TCP servers, setting `reusePort` to `true` allows multiple sockets on the same host to bind to the same port. Incoming connections are distributed by the operating system to listening sockets. This option is available only on some platforms, such as Linux 3.9+, DragonFlyBSD 3.6+, FreeBSD 12.0+, Solaris 11.4, and AIX 7.2.5+. **Default:** `false`.
    * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Will be ignored if `port` is specified. See Identifying paths for IPC connections.
    * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `readableAll` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) For IPC servers makes the pipe readable for all users. **Default:** `false`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> An AbortSignal that may be used to close a listening server.
    * `writableAll` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) For IPC servers makes the pipe writable for all users. **Default:** `false`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) functions.
  * Returns: <net.Server>

If `port` is specified, it behaves the same as `server.listen([port[, host[,
backlog]]][, callback])`. Otherwise, if `path` is specified, it behaves the
same as `server.listen(path[, backlog][, callback])`. If none of them is
specified, an error will be thrown.

If `exclusive` is `false` (default), then cluster workers will use the same
underlying handle, allowing connection handling duties to be shared. When
`exclusive` is `true`, the handle is not shared, and attempted port sharing
results in an error. An example which listens on an exclusive port is shown
below.

    
    
    server.listen({
      host: 'localhost',
      port: 80,
      exclusive: true,
    }); copy

When `exclusive` is `true` and the underlying handle is shared, it is possible
that several workers query a handle with different backlogs. In this case, the
first `backlog` passed to the master process will be used.

Starting an IPC server as root may cause the server path to be inaccessible
for unprivileged users. Using `readableAll` and `writableAll` will make the
server accessible for all users.

If the `signal` option is enabled, calling `.abort()` on the corresponding
`AbortController` is similar to calling `.close()` on the server:

    
    
    const controller = new AbortController();
    server.listen({
      host: 'localhost',
      port: 80,
      signal: controller.signal,
    });
    // Later, when you want to close the server.
    controller.abort(); copy

##### `server.listen(path[, backlog][, callback])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Path the server should listen to. See Identifying paths for IPC connections.
  * `backlog` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Common parameter of `server.listen()` functions.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function).
  * Returns: <net.Server>

Start an IPC server listening for connections on the given `path`.

##### `server.listen([port[, host[, backlog]]][, callback])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `host` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `backlog` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Common parameter of `server.listen()` functions.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function).
  * Returns: <net.Server>

Start a TCP server listening for connections on the given `port` and `host`.

If `port` is omitted or is 0, the operating system will assign an arbitrary
unused port, which can be retrieved by using `server.address().port` after the
`'listening'` event has been emitted.

If `host` is omitted, the server will accept connections on the [unspecified
IPv6 address](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPv6_address#Unspecified_address)
(`::`) when IPv6 is available, or the [unspecified IPv4
address](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/0.0.0.0) (`0.0.0.0`) otherwise.

In most operating systems, listening to the [unspecified IPv6
address](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPv6_address#Unspecified_address)
(`::`) may cause the `net.Server` to also listen on the [unspecified IPv4
address](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/0.0.0.0) (`0.0.0.0`).

#### `server.listening`#

Added in: v5.7.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Indicates whether or not the server is listening for connections.

#### `server.maxConnections`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0 | Setting `maxConnections` to `0` drops all the incoming connections. Previously, it was interpreted as `Infinity`.  
v0.2.0 | Added in: v0.2.0  
  
  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

When the number of connections reaches the `server.maxConnections` threshold:

  1. If the process is not running in cluster mode, Node.js will close the connection.

  2. If the process is running in cluster mode, Node.js will, by default, route the connection to another worker process. To close the connection instead, set [`server.dropMaxConnection`][] to `true`.

It is not recommended to use this option once a socket has been sent to a
child with `child_process.fork()`.

#### `server.dropMaxConnection`#

Added in: v23.1.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Set this property to `true` to begin closing connections once the number of
connections reaches the [`server.maxConnections`][] threshold. This setting is
only effective in cluster mode.

#### `server.ref()`#

Added in: v0.9.1

  * Returns: <net.Server>

Opposite of `unref()`, calling `ref()` on a previously `unref`ed server will
_not_ let the program exit if it's the only server left (the default
behavior). If the server is `ref`ed calling `ref()` again will have no effect.

#### `server.unref()`#

Added in: v0.9.1

  * Returns: <net.Server>

Calling `unref()` on a server will allow the program to exit if this is the
only active server in the event system. If the server is already `unref`ed
calling `unref()` again will have no effect.

### Class: `net.Socket`#

Added in: v0.3.4

  * Extends: <stream.Duplex>

This class is an abstraction of a TCP socket or a streaming IPC endpoint (uses
named pipes on Windows, and Unix domain sockets otherwise). It is also an
`EventEmitter`.

A `net.Socket` can be created by the user and used directly to interact with a
server. For example, it is returned by `net.createConnection()`, so the user
can use it to talk to the server.

It can also be created by Node.js and passed to the user when a connection is
received. For example, it is passed to the listeners of a `'connection'` event
emitted on a `net.Server`, so the user can use it to interact with the client.

#### `new net.Socket([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.14.0 | AbortSignal support was added.  
v12.10.0 | Added `onread` option.  
v0.3.4 | Added in: v0.3.4  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Available options are: 
    * `allowHalfOpen` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `false`, then the socket will automatically end the writable side when the readable side ends. See `net.createServer()` and the `'end'` event for details. **Default:** `false`.
    * `fd` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) If specified, wrap around an existing socket with the given file descriptor, otherwise a new socket will be created.
    * `onread` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) If specified, incoming data is stored in a single `buffer` and passed to the supplied `callback` when data arrives on the socket. This will cause the streaming functionality to not provide any data. The socket will emit events like `'error'`, `'end'`, and `'close'` as usual. Methods like `pause()` and `resume()` will also behave as expected. 
      * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Either a reusable chunk of memory to use for storing incoming data or a function that returns such.
      * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) This function is called for every chunk of incoming data. Two arguments are passed to it: the number of bytes written to `buffer` and a reference to `buffer`. Return `false` from this function to implicitly `pause()` the socket. This function will be executed in the global context.
    * `readable` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Allow reads on the socket when an `fd` is passed, otherwise ignored. **Default:** `false`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> An Abort signal that may be used to destroy the socket.
    * `writable` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Allow writes on the socket when an `fd` is passed, otherwise ignored. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: <net.Socket>

Creates a new socket object.

The newly created socket can be either a TCP socket or a streaming IPC
endpoint, depending on what it `connect()` to.

#### Event: `'close'`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `hadError` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the socket had a transmission error.

Emitted once the socket is fully closed. The argument `hadError` is a boolean
which says if the socket was closed due to a transmission error.

#### Event: `'connect'`#

Added in: v0.1.90

Emitted when a socket connection is successfully established. See
`net.createConnection()`.

#### Event: `'connectionAttempt'`#

Added in: v21.6.0, v20.12.0

  * `ip` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The IP which the socket is attempting to connect to.
  * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The port which the socket is attempting to connect to.
  * `family` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The family of the IP. It can be `6` for IPv6 or `4` for IPv4.

Emitted when a new connection attempt is started. This may be emitted multiple
times if the family autoselection algorithm is enabled in
`socket.connect(options)`.

#### Event: `'connectionAttemptFailed'`#

Added in: v21.6.0, v20.12.0

  * `ip` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The IP which the socket attempted to connect to.
  * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The port which the socket attempted to connect to.
  * `family` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The family of the IP. It can be `6` for IPv6 or `4` for IPv4.
  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) The error associated with the failure.

Emitted when a connection attempt failed. This may be emitted multiple times
if the family autoselection algorithm is enabled in `socket.connect(options)`.

#### Event: `'connectionAttemptTimeout'`#

Added in: v21.6.0, v20.12.0

  * `ip` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The IP which the socket attempted to connect to.
  * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The port which the socket attempted to connect to.
  * `family` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The family of the IP. It can be `6` for IPv6 or `4` for IPv4.

Emitted when a connection attempt timed out. This is only emitted (and may be
emitted multiple times) if the family autoselection algorithm is enabled in
`socket.connect(options)`.

#### Event: `'data'`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Emitted when data is received. The argument `data` will be a `Buffer` or
`String`. Encoding of data is set by `socket.setEncoding()`.

The data will be lost if there is no listener when a `Socket` emits a `'data'`
event.

#### Event: `'drain'`#

Added in: v0.1.90

Emitted when the write buffer becomes empty. Can be used to throttle uploads.

See also: the return values of `socket.write()`.

#### Event: `'end'`#

Added in: v0.1.90

Emitted when the other end of the socket signals the end of transmission, thus
ending the readable side of the socket.

By default (`allowHalfOpen` is `false`) the socket will send an end of
transmission packet back and destroy its file descriptor once it has written
out its pending write queue. However, if `allowHalfOpen` is set to `true`, the
socket will not automatically `end()` its writable side, allowing the user to
write arbitrary amounts of data. The user must call `end()` explicitly to
close the connection (i.e. sending a FIN packet back).

#### Event: `'error'`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Emitted when an error occurs. The `'close'` event will be called directly
following this event.

#### Event: `'lookup'`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v5.10.0 | The `host` parameter is supported now.  
v0.11.3 | Added in: v0.11.3  
  
Emitted after resolving the host name but before connecting. Not applicable to
Unix sockets.

  * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) The error object. See `dns.lookup()`.
  * `address` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The IP address.
  * `family` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) The address type. See `dns.lookup()`.
  * `host` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The host name.

#### Event: `'ready'`#

Added in: v9.11.0

Emitted when a socket is ready to be used.

Triggered immediately after `'connect'`.

#### Event: `'timeout'`#

Added in: v0.1.90

Emitted if the socket times out from inactivity. This is only to notify that
the socket has been idle. The user must manually close the connection.

See also: `socket.setTimeout()`.

#### `socket.address()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.4.0 | The `family` property now returns a string instead of a number.  
v18.0.0 | The `family` property now returns a number instead of a string.  
v0.1.90 | Added in: v0.1.90  
  
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns the bound `address`, the address `family` name and `port` of the
socket as reported by the operating system: `{ port: 12346, family: 'IPv4',
address: '127.0.0.1' }`

#### `socket.autoSelectFamilyAttemptedAddresses`#

Added in: v19.4.0, v18.18.0

  * [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

This property is only present if the family autoselection algorithm is enabled
in `socket.connect(options)` and it is an array of the addresses that have
been attempted.

Each address is a string in the form of `$IP:$PORT`. If the connection was
successful, then the last address is the one that the socket is currently
connected to.

#### `socket.bufferSize`#

Added in: v0.3.8Deprecated since: v14.6.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `writable.writableLength` instead.

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

This property shows the number of characters buffered for writing. The buffer
may contain strings whose length after encoding is not yet known. So this
number is only an approximation of the number of bytes in the buffer.

`net.Socket` has the property that `socket.write()` always works. This is to
help users get up and running quickly. The computer cannot always keep up with
the amount of data that is written to a socket. The network connection simply
might be too slow. Node.js will internally queue up the data written to a
socket and send it out over the wire when it is possible.

The consequence of this internal buffering is that memory may grow. Users who
experience large or growing `bufferSize` should attempt to "throttle" the data
flows in their program with `socket.pause()` and `socket.resume()`.

#### `socket.bytesRead`#

Added in: v0.5.3

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The amount of received bytes.

#### `socket.bytesWritten`#

Added in: v0.5.3

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The amount of bytes sent.

#### `socket.connect()`#

Initiate a connection on a given socket.

Possible signatures:

  * `socket.connect(options[, connectListener])`
  * `socket.connect(path[, connectListener])` for IPC connections.
  * `socket.connect(port[, host][, connectListener])` for TCP connections.
  * Returns: <net.Socket> The socket itself.

This function is asynchronous. When the connection is established, the
`'connect'` event will be emitted. If there is a problem connecting, instead
of a `'connect'` event, an `'error'` event will be emitted with the error
passed to the `'error'` listener. The last parameter `connectListener`, if
supplied, will be added as a listener for the `'connect'` event **once**.

This function should only be used for reconnecting a socket after `'close'`
has been emitted or otherwise it may lead to undefined behavior.

##### `socket.connect(options[, connectListener])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.4.0 | The default value for autoSelectFamily option can be changed at runtime using `setDefaultAutoSelectFamily` or via the command line option `--enable-network-family-autoselection`.  
v20.0.0, v18.18.0 | The default value for the autoSelectFamily option is now true. The `--enable-network-family-autoselection` CLI flag has been renamed to `--network-family-autoselection`. The old name is now an alias but it is discouraged.  
v19.3.0, v18.13.0 | Added the `autoSelectFamily` option.  
v17.7.0, v16.15.0 | The `noDelay`, `keepAlive`, and `keepAliveInitialDelay` options are supported now.  
v6.0.0 | The `hints` option defaults to `0` in all cases now. Previously, in the absence of the `family` option it would default to `dns.ADDRCONFIG | dns.V4MAPPED`.  
v5.11.0 | The `hints` option is supported now.  
v0.1.90 | Added in: v0.1.90  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * `connectListener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Common parameter of `socket.connect()` methods. Will be added as a listener for the `'connect'` event once.
  * Returns: <net.Socket> The socket itself.

Initiate a connection on a given socket. Normally this method is not needed,
the socket should be created and opened with `net.createConnection()`. Use
this only when implementing a custom Socket.

For TCP connections, available `options` are:

  * `autoSelectFamily` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type): If set to `true`, it enables a family autodetection algorithm that loosely implements section 5 of [RFC 8305](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8305.txt). The `all` option passed to lookup is set to `true` and the sockets attempts to connect to all obtained IPv6 and IPv4 addresses, in sequence, until a connection is established. The first returned AAAA address is tried first, then the first returned A address, then the second returned AAAA address and so on. Each connection attempt (but the last one) is given the amount of time specified by the `autoSelectFamilyAttemptTimeout` option before timing out and trying the next address. Ignored if the `family` option is not `0` or if `localAddress` is set. Connection errors are not emitted if at least one connection succeeds. If all connections attempts fails, a single `AggregateError` with all failed attempts is emitted. **Default:** `net.getDefaultAutoSelectFamily()`.
  * `autoSelectFamilyAttemptTimeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type): The amount of time in milliseconds to wait for a connection attempt to finish before trying the next address when using the `autoSelectFamily` option. If set to a positive integer less than `10`, then the value `10` will be used instead. **Default:** `net.getDefaultAutoSelectFamilyAttemptTimeout()`.
  * `family` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type): Version of IP stack. Must be `4`, `6`, or `0`. The value `0` indicates that both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are allowed. **Default:** `0`.
  * `hints` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Optional `dns.lookup()` hints.
  * `host` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Host the socket should connect to. **Default:** `'localhost'`.
  * `keepAlive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `true`, it enables keep-alive functionality on the socket immediately after the connection is established, similarly on what is done in `socket.setKeepAlive()`. **Default:** `false`.
  * `keepAliveInitialDelay` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) If set to a positive number, it sets the initial delay before the first keepalive probe is sent on an idle socket. **Default:** `0`.
  * `localAddress` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Local address the socket should connect from.
  * `localPort` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Local port the socket should connect from.
  * `lookup` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Custom lookup function. **Default:** `dns.lookup()`.
  * `noDelay` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `true`, it disables the use of Nagle's algorithm immediately after the socket is established. **Default:** `false`.
  * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Required. Port the socket should connect to.
  * `blockList` <net.BlockList> `blockList` can be used for disabling outbound access to specific IP addresses, IP ranges, or IP subnets.

For IPC connections, available `options` are:

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Required. Path the client should connect to. See Identifying paths for IPC connections. If provided, the TCP-specific options above are ignored.

##### `socket.connect(path[, connectListener])`#

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Path the client should connect to. See Identifying paths for IPC connections.
  * `connectListener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Common parameter of `socket.connect()` methods. Will be added as a listener for the `'connect'` event once.
  * Returns: <net.Socket> The socket itself.

Initiate an IPC connection on the given socket.

Alias to `socket.connect(options[, connectListener])` called with `{ path:
path }` as `options`.

##### `socket.connect(port[, host][, connectListener])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Port the client should connect to.
  * `host` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Host the client should connect to.
  * `connectListener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Common parameter of `socket.connect()` methods. Will be added as a listener for the `'connect'` event once.
  * Returns: <net.Socket> The socket itself.

Initiate a TCP connection on the given socket.

Alias to `socket.connect(options[, connectListener])` called with `{port:
port, host: host}` as `options`.

#### `socket.connecting`#

Added in: v6.1.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

If `true`, `socket.connect(options[, connectListener])` was called and has not
yet finished. It will stay `true` until the socket becomes connected, then it
is set to `false` and the `'connect'` event is emitted. Note that the
`socket.connect(options[, connectListener])` callback is a listener for the
`'connect'` event.

#### `socket.destroy([error])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `error` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * Returns: <net.Socket>

Ensures that no more I/O activity happens on this socket. Destroys the stream
and closes the connection.

See `writable.destroy()` for further details.

#### `socket.destroyed`#

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Indicates if the connection is destroyed or not. Once a connection is destroyed no further data can be transferred using it.

See `writable.destroyed` for further details.

#### `socket.destroySoon()`#

Added in: v0.3.4

Destroys the socket after all data is written. If the `'finish'` event was
already emitted the socket is destroyed immediately. If the socket is still
writable it implicitly calls `socket.end()`.

#### `socket.end([data[, encoding]][, callback])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Only used when data is `string`. **Default:** `'utf8'`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Optional callback for when the socket is finished.
  * Returns: <net.Socket> The socket itself.

Half-closes the socket. i.e., it sends a FIN packet. It is possible the server
will still send some data.

See `writable.end()` for further details.

#### `socket.localAddress`#

Added in: v0.9.6

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The string representation of the local IP address the remote client is
connecting on. For example, in a server listening on `'0.0.0.0'`, if a client
connects on `'192.168.1.1'`, the value of `socket.localAddress` would be
`'192.168.1.1'`.

#### `socket.localPort`#

Added in: v0.9.6

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The numeric representation of the local port. For example, `80` or `21`.

#### `socket.localFamily`#

Added in: v18.8.0, v16.18.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The string representation of the local IP family. `'IPv4'` or `'IPv6'`.

#### `socket.pause()`#

  * Returns: <net.Socket> The socket itself.

Pauses the reading of data. That is, `'data'` events will not be emitted.
Useful to throttle back an upload.

#### `socket.pending`#

Added in: v11.2.0, v10.16.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

This is `true` if the socket is not connected yet, either because `.connect()`
has not yet been called or because it is still in the process of connecting
(see `socket.connecting`).

#### `socket.ref()`#

Added in: v0.9.1

  * Returns: <net.Socket> The socket itself.

Opposite of `unref()`, calling `ref()` on a previously `unref`ed socket will
_not_ let the program exit if it's the only socket left (the default
behavior). If the socket is `ref`ed calling `ref` again will have no effect.

#### `socket.remoteAddress`#

Added in: v0.5.10

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The string representation of the remote IP address. For example,
`'74.125.127.100'` or `'2001:4860:a005::68'`. Value may be `undefined` if the
socket is destroyed (for example, if the client disconnected).

#### `socket.remoteFamily`#

Added in: v0.11.14

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The string representation of the remote IP family. `'IPv4'` or `'IPv6'`. Value
may be `undefined` if the socket is destroyed (for example, if the client
disconnected).

#### `socket.remotePort`#

Added in: v0.5.10

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The numeric representation of the remote port. For example, `80` or `21`.
Value may be `undefined` if the socket is destroyed (for example, if the
client disconnected).

#### `socket.resetAndDestroy()`#

Added in: v18.3.0, v16.17.0

  * Returns: <net.Socket>

Close the TCP connection by sending an RST packet and destroy the stream. If
this TCP socket is in connecting status, it will send an RST packet and
destroy this TCP socket once it is connected. Otherwise, it will call
`socket.destroy` with an `ERR_SOCKET_CLOSED` Error. If this is not a TCP
socket (for example, a pipe), calling this method will immediately throw an
`ERR_INVALID_HANDLE_TYPE` Error.

#### `socket.resume()`#

  * Returns: <net.Socket> The socket itself.

Resumes reading after a call to `socket.pause()`.

#### `socket.setEncoding([encoding])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: <net.Socket> The socket itself.

Set the encoding for the socket as a Readable Stream. See
`readable.setEncoding()` for more information.

#### `socket.setKeepAlive([enable][, initialDelay])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.12.0, v12.17.0 | New defaults for `TCP_KEEPCNT` and `TCP_KEEPINTVL` socket options were added.  
v0.1.92 | Added in: v0.1.92  
  
  * `enable` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`
  * `initialDelay` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `0`
  * Returns: <net.Socket> The socket itself.

Enable/disable keep-alive functionality, and optionally set the initial delay
before the first keepalive probe is sent on an idle socket.

Set `initialDelay` (in milliseconds) to set the delay between the last data
packet received and the first keepalive probe. Setting `0` for `initialDelay`
will leave the value unchanged from the default (or previous) setting.

Enabling the keep-alive functionality will set the following socket options:

  * `SO_KEEPALIVE=1`
  * `TCP_KEEPIDLE=initialDelay`
  * `TCP_KEEPCNT=10`
  * `TCP_KEEPINTVL=1`

#### `socket.setNoDelay([noDelay])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `noDelay` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `true`
  * Returns: <net.Socket> The socket itself.

Enable/disable the use of Nagle's algorithm.

When a TCP connection is created, it will have Nagle's algorithm enabled.

Nagle's algorithm delays data before it is sent via the network. It attempts
to optimize throughput at the expense of latency.

Passing `true` for `noDelay` or not passing an argument will disable Nagle's
algorithm for the socket. Passing `false` for `noDelay` will enable Nagle's
algorithm.

#### `socket.setTimeout(timeout[, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v0.1.90 | Added in: v0.1.90  
  
  * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <net.Socket> The socket itself.

Sets the socket to timeout after `timeout` milliseconds of inactivity on the
socket. By default `net.Socket` do not have a timeout.

When an idle timeout is triggered the socket will receive a `'timeout'` event
but the connection will not be severed. The user must manually call
`socket.end()` or `socket.destroy()` to end the connection.

    
    
    socket.setTimeout(3000);
    socket.on('timeout', () => {
      console.log('socket timeout');
      socket.end();
    }); copy

If `timeout` is 0, then the existing idle timeout is disabled.

The optional `callback` parameter will be added as a one-time listener for the
`'timeout'` event.

#### `socket.timeout`#

Added in: v10.7.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

The socket timeout in milliseconds as set by `socket.setTimeout()`. It is
`undefined` if a timeout has not been set.

#### `socket.unref()`#

Added in: v0.9.1

  * Returns: <net.Socket> The socket itself.

Calling `unref()` on a socket will allow the program to exit if this is the
only active socket in the event system. If the socket is already `unref`ed
calling `unref()` again will have no effect.

#### `socket.write(data[, encoding][, callback])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array)
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Only used when data is `string`. **Default:** `utf8`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Sends data on the socket. The second parameter specifies the encoding in the
case of a string. It defaults to UTF8 encoding.

Returns `true` if the entire data was flushed successfully to the kernel
buffer. Returns `false` if all or part of the data was queued in user memory.
`'drain'` will be emitted when the buffer is again free.

The optional `callback` parameter will be executed when the data is finally
written out, which may not be immediately.

See `Writable` stream `write()` method for more information.

#### `socket.readyState`#

Added in: v0.5.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

This property represents the state of the connection as a string.

  * If the stream is connecting `socket.readyState` is `opening`.
  * If the stream is readable and writable, it is `open`.
  * If the stream is readable and not writable, it is `readOnly`.
  * If the stream is not readable and writable, it is `writeOnly`.

### `net.connect()`#

Aliases to `net.createConnection()`.

Possible signatures:

  * `net.connect(options[, connectListener])`
  * `net.connect(path[, connectListener])` for IPC connections.
  * `net.connect(port[, host][, connectListener])` for TCP connections.

#### `net.connect(options[, connectListener])`#

Added in: v0.7.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * `connectListener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <net.Socket>

Alias to `net.createConnection(options[, connectListener])`.

#### `net.connect(path[, connectListener])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `connectListener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <net.Socket>

Alias to `net.createConnection(path[, connectListener])`.

#### `net.connect(port[, host][, connectListener])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `host` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `connectListener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <net.Socket>

Alias to `net.createConnection(port[, host][, connectListener])`.

### `net.createConnection()`#

A factory function, which creates a new `net.Socket`, immediately initiates
connection with `socket.connect()`, then returns the `net.Socket` that starts
the connection.

When the connection is established, a `'connect'` event will be emitted on the
returned socket. The last parameter `connectListener`, if supplied, will be
added as a listener for the `'connect'` event **once**.

Possible signatures:

  * `net.createConnection(options[, connectListener])`
  * `net.createConnection(path[, connectListener])` for IPC connections.
  * `net.createConnection(port[, host][, connectListener])` for TCP connections.

The `net.connect()` function is an alias to this function.

#### `net.createConnection(options[, connectListener])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Required. Will be passed to both the `new net.Socket([options])` call and the `socket.connect(options[, connectListener])` method.
  * `connectListener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Common parameter of the `net.createConnection()` functions. If supplied, will be added as a listener for the `'connect'` event on the returned socket once.
  * Returns: <net.Socket> The newly created socket used to start the connection.

For available options, see `new net.Socket([options])` and
`socket.connect(options[, connectListener])`.

Additional options:

  * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) If set, will be used to call `socket.setTimeout(timeout)` after the socket is created, but before it starts the connection.

Following is an example of a client of the echo server described in the
`net.createServer()` section:

    
    
    import net from 'node:net';
    const client = net.createConnection({ port: 8124 }, () => {
      // 'connect' listener.
      console.log('connected to server!');
      client.write('world!\r\n');
    });
    client.on('data', (data) => {
      console.log(data.toString());
      client.end();
    });
    client.on('end', () => {
      console.log('disconnected from server');
    });const net = require('node:net');
    const client = net.createConnection({ port: 8124 }, () => {
      // 'connect' listener.
      console.log('connected to server!');
      client.write('world!\r\n');
    });
    client.on('data', (data) => {
      console.log(data.toString());
      client.end();
    });
    client.on('end', () => {
      console.log('disconnected from server');
    });copy

To connect on the socket `/tmp/echo.sock`:

    
    
    const client = net.createConnection({ path: '/tmp/echo.sock' }); copy

Following is an example of a client using the `port` and `onread` option. In
this case, the `onread` option will be only used to call `new
net.Socket([options])` and the `port` option will be used to call
`socket.connect(options[, connectListener])`.

    
    
    import net from 'node:net';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    net.createConnection({
      port: 8124,
      onread: {
        // Reuses a 4KiB Buffer for every read from the socket.
        buffer: Buffer.alloc(4 * 1024),
        callback: function(nread, buf) {
          // Received data is available in `buf` from 0 to `nread`.
          console.log(buf.toString('utf8', 0, nread));
        },
      },
    });const net = require('node:net');
    net.createConnection({
      port: 8124,
      onread: {
        // Reuses a 4KiB Buffer for every read from the socket.
        buffer: Buffer.alloc(4 * 1024),
        callback: function(nread, buf) {
          // Received data is available in `buf` from 0 to `nread`.
          console.log(buf.toString('utf8', 0, nread));
        },
      },
    });copy

#### `net.createConnection(path[, connectListener])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Path the socket should connect to. Will be passed to `socket.connect(path[, connectListener])`. See Identifying paths for IPC connections.
  * `connectListener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Common parameter of the `net.createConnection()` functions, an "once" listener for the `'connect'` event on the initiating socket. Will be passed to `socket.connect(path[, connectListener])`.
  * Returns: <net.Socket> The newly created socket used to start the connection.

Initiates an IPC connection.

This function creates a new `net.Socket` with all options set to default,
immediately initiates connection with `socket.connect(path[,
connectListener])`, then returns the `net.Socket` that starts the connection.

#### `net.createConnection(port[, host][, connectListener])`#

Added in: v0.1.90

  * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Port the socket should connect to. Will be passed to `socket.connect(port[, host][, connectListener])`.
  * `host` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Host the socket should connect to. Will be passed to `socket.connect(port[, host][, connectListener])`. **Default:** `'localhost'`.
  * `connectListener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Common parameter of the `net.createConnection()` functions, an "once" listener for the `'connect'` event on the initiating socket. Will be passed to `socket.connect(port[, host][, connectListener])`.
  * Returns: <net.Socket> The newly created socket used to start the connection.

Initiates a TCP connection.

This function creates a new `net.Socket` with all options set to default,
immediately initiates connection with `socket.connect(port[, host][,
connectListener])`, then returns the `net.Socket` that starts the connection.

### `net.createServer([options][, connectionListener])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.1.0, v18.17.0 | The `highWaterMark` option is supported now.  
v17.7.0, v16.15.0 | The `noDelay`, `keepAlive`, and `keepAliveInitialDelay` options are supported now.  
v0.5.0 | Added in: v0.5.0  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

    * `allowHalfOpen` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `false`, then the socket will automatically end the writable side when the readable side ends. **Default:** `false`.
    * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Optionally overrides all `net.Socket`s' `readableHighWaterMark` and `writableHighWaterMark`. **Default:** See `stream.getDefaultHighWaterMark()`.
    * `keepAlive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `true`, it enables keep-alive functionality on the socket immediately after a new incoming connection is received, similarly on what is done in `socket.setKeepAlive()`. **Default:** `false`.
    * `keepAliveInitialDelay` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) If set to a positive number, it sets the initial delay before the first keepalive probe is sent on an idle socket. **Default:** `0`.
    * `noDelay` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `true`, it disables the use of Nagle's algorithm immediately after a new incoming connection is received. **Default:** `false`.
    * `pauseOnConnect` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Indicates whether the socket should be paused on incoming connections. **Default:** `false`.
    * `blockList` <net.BlockList> `blockList` can be used for disabling inbound access to specific IP addresses, IP ranges, or IP subnets. This does not work if the server is behind a reverse proxy, NAT, etc. because the address checked against the block list is the address of the proxy, or the one specified by the NAT.
  * `connectionListener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Automatically set as a listener for the `'connection'` event.

  * Returns: <net.Server>

Creates a new TCP or IPC server.

If `allowHalfOpen` is set to `true`, when the other end of the socket signals
the end of transmission, the server will only send back the end of
transmission when `socket.end()` is explicitly called. For example, in the
context of TCP, when a FIN packed is received, a FIN packed is sent back only
when `socket.end()` is explicitly called. Until then the connection is half-
closed (non-readable but still writable). See `'end'` event and [RFC
1122](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1122) (section 4.2.2.13) for more
information.

If `pauseOnConnect` is set to `true`, then the socket associated with each
incoming connection will be paused, and no data will be read from its handle.
This allows connections to be passed between processes without any data being
read by the original process. To begin reading data from a paused socket, call
`socket.resume()`.

The server can be a TCP server or an IPC server, depending on what it
`listen()` to.

Here is an example of a TCP echo server which listens for connections on port
8124:

    
    
    import net from 'node:net';
    const server = net.createServer((c) => {
      // 'connection' listener.
      console.log('client connected');
      c.on('end', () => {
        console.log('client disconnected');
      });
      c.write('hello\r\n');
      c.pipe(c);
    });
    server.on('error', (err) => {
      throw err;
    });
    server.listen(8124, () => {
      console.log('server bound');
    });const net = require('node:net');
    const server = net.createServer((c) => {
      // 'connection' listener.
      console.log('client connected');
      c.on('end', () => {
        console.log('client disconnected');
      });
      c.write('hello\r\n');
      c.pipe(c);
    });
    server.on('error', (err) => {
      throw err;
    });
    server.listen(8124, () => {
      console.log('server bound');
    });copy

Test this by using `telnet`:

    
    
    telnet localhost 8124 copy

To listen on the socket `/tmp/echo.sock`:

    
    
    server.listen('/tmp/echo.sock', () => {
      console.log('server bound');
    }); copy

Use `nc` to connect to a Unix domain socket server:

    
    
    nc -U /tmp/echo.sock copy

### `net.getDefaultAutoSelectFamily()`#

Added in: v19.4.0

Gets the current default value of the `autoSelectFamily` option of
`socket.connect(options)`. The initial default value is `true`, unless the
command line option `--no-network-family-autoselection` is provided.

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) The current default value of the `autoSelectFamily` option.

### `net.setDefaultAutoSelectFamily(value)`#

Added in: v19.4.0

Sets the default value of the `autoSelectFamily` option of
`socket.connect(options)`.

  * `value` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) The new default value. The initial default value is `true`, unless the command line option `--no-network-family-autoselection` is provided.

### `net.getDefaultAutoSelectFamilyAttemptTimeout()`#

Added in: v19.8.0, v18.18.0

Gets the current default value of the `autoSelectFamilyAttemptTimeout` option
of `socket.connect(options)`. The initial default value is `250` or the value
specified via the command line option `--network-family-autoselection-attempt-
timeout`.

  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The current default value of the `autoSelectFamilyAttemptTimeout` option.

### `net.setDefaultAutoSelectFamilyAttemptTimeout(value)`#

Added in: v19.8.0, v18.18.0

Sets the default value of the `autoSelectFamilyAttemptTimeout` option of
`socket.connect(options)`.

  * `value` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The new default value, which must be a positive number. If the number is less than `10`, the value `10` is used instead. The initial default value is `250` or the value specified via the command line option `--network-family-autoselection-attempt-timeout`.

### `net.isIP(input)`#

Added in: v0.3.0

  * `input` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns `6` if `input` is an IPv6 address. Returns `4` if `input` is an IPv4
address in [dot-decimal notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dot-
decimal_notation) with no leading zeroes. Otherwise, returns `0`.

    
    
    net.isIP('::1'); // returns 6
    net.isIP('127.0.0.1'); // returns 4
    net.isIP('127.000.000.001'); // returns 0
    net.isIP('127.0.0.1/24'); // returns 0
    net.isIP('fhqwhgads'); // returns 0 copy

### `net.isIPv4(input)`#

Added in: v0.3.0

  * `input` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if `input` is an IPv4 address in [dot-decimal
notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dot-decimal_notation) with no leading
zeroes. Otherwise, returns `false`.

    
    
    net.isIPv4('127.0.0.1'); // returns true
    net.isIPv4('127.000.000.001'); // returns false
    net.isIPv4('127.0.0.1/24'); // returns false
    net.isIPv4('fhqwhgads'); // returns false copy

### `net.isIPv6(input)`#

Added in: v0.3.0

  * `input` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if `input` is an IPv6 address. Otherwise, returns `false`.

    
    
    net.isIPv6('::1'); // returns true
    net.isIPv6('fhqwhgads'); // returns false copy

## OS#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/os.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/os.js)

The `node:os` module provides operating system-related utility methods and
properties. It can be accessed using:

    
    
    import os from 'node:os';const os = require('node:os');copy

### `os.EOL`#

Added in: v0.7.8

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The operating system-specific end-of-line marker.

  * `\n` on POSIX
  * `\r\n` on Windows

### `os.availableParallelism()`#

Added in: v19.4.0, v18.14.0

  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns an estimate of the default amount of parallelism a program should use.
Always returns a value greater than zero.

This function is a small wrapper about libuv's
[`uv_available_parallelism()`](https://docs.libuv.org/en/v1.x/misc.html#c.uv_available_parallelism).

### `os.arch()`#

Added in: v0.5.0

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the operating system CPU architecture for which the Node.js binary was
compiled. Possible values are `'arm'`, `'arm64'`, `'ia32'`, `'loong64'`,
`'mips'`, `'mipsel'`, `'ppc'`, `'ppc64'`, `'riscv64'`, `'s390'`, `'s390x'`,
and `'x64'`.

The return value is equivalent to `process.arch`.

### `os.constants`#

Added in: v6.3.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Contains commonly used operating system-specific constants for error codes,
process signals, and so on. The specific constants defined are described in OS
constants.

### `os.cpus()`#

Added in: v0.3.3

  * Returns: [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns an array of objects containing information about each logical CPU
core. The array will be empty if no CPU information is available, such as if
the `/proc` file system is unavailable.

The properties included on each object include:

  * `model` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `speed` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) (in MHz)
  * `times` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `user` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds the CPU has spent in user mode.
    * `nice` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds the CPU has spent in nice mode.
    * `sys` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds the CPU has spent in sys mode.
    * `idle` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds the CPU has spent in idle mode.
    * `irq` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds the CPU has spent in irq mode.

    
    
    [
      {
        model: 'Intel(R) Core(TM) i7 CPU         860  @ 2.80GHz',
        speed: 2926,
        times: {
          user: 252020,
          nice: 0,
          sys: 30340,
          idle: 1070356870,
          irq: 0,
        },
      },
      {
        model: 'Intel(R) Core(TM) i7 CPU         860  @ 2.80GHz',
        speed: 2926,
        times: {
          user: 306960,
          nice: 0,
          sys: 26980,
          idle: 1071569080,
          irq: 0,
        },
      },
      {
        model: 'Intel(R) Core(TM) i7 CPU         860  @ 2.80GHz',
        speed: 2926,
        times: {
          user: 248450,
          nice: 0,
          sys: 21750,
          idle: 1070919370,
          irq: 0,
        },
      },
      {
        model: 'Intel(R) Core(TM) i7 CPU         860  @ 2.80GHz',
        speed: 2926,
        times: {
          user: 256880,
          nice: 0,
          sys: 19430,
          idle: 1070905480,
          irq: 20,
        },
      },
    ] copy

`nice` values are POSIX-only. On Windows, the `nice` values of all processors
are always 0.

`os.cpus().length` should not be used to calculate the amount of parallelism
available to an application. Use `os.availableParallelism()` for this purpose.

### `os.devNull`#

Added in: v16.3.0, v14.18.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The platform-specific file path of the null device.

  * `\\.\nul` on Windows
  * `/dev/null` on POSIX

### `os.endianness()`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns a string identifying the endianness of the CPU for which the Node.js
binary was compiled.

Possible values are `'BE'` for big endian and `'LE'` for little endian.

### `os.freemem()`#

Added in: v0.3.3

  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the amount of free system memory in bytes as an integer.

### `os.getPriority([pid])`#

Added in: v10.10.0

  * `pid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The process ID to retrieve scheduling priority for. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the scheduling priority for the process specified by `pid`. If `pid`
is not provided or is `0`, the priority of the current process is returned.

### `os.homedir()`#

Added in: v2.3.0

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the string path of the current user's home directory.

On POSIX, it uses the `$HOME` environment variable if defined. Otherwise it
uses the [effective
UID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User_identifier#Effective_user_ID) to look
up the user's home directory.

On Windows, it uses the `USERPROFILE` environment variable if defined.
Otherwise it uses the path to the profile directory of the current user.

### `os.hostname()`#

Added in: v0.3.3

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the host name of the operating system as a string.

### `os.loadavg()`#

Added in: v0.3.3

  * Returns: [<number[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns an array containing the 1, 5, and 15 minute load averages.

The load average is a measure of system activity calculated by the operating
system and expressed as a fractional number.

The load average is a Unix-specific concept. On Windows, the return value is
always `[0, 0, 0]`.

### `os.machine()`#

Added in: v18.9.0, v16.18.0

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the machine type as a string, such as `arm`, `arm64`, `aarch64`,
`mips`, `mips64`, `ppc64`, `ppc64le`, `s390`, `s390x`, `i386`, `i686`,
`x86_64`.

On POSIX systems, the machine type is determined by calling
[`uname(3)`](https://linux.die.net/man/3/uname). On Windows, `RtlGetVersion()`
is used, and if it is not available, `GetVersionExW()` will be used. See
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uname#Examples> for more information.

### `os.networkInterfaces()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.4.0 | The `family` property now returns a string instead of a number.  
v18.0.0 | The `family` property now returns a number instead of a string.  
v0.6.0 | Added in: v0.6.0  
  
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns an object containing network interfaces that have been assigned a
network address.

Each key on the returned object identifies a network interface. The associated
value is an array of objects that each describe an assigned network address.

The properties available on the assigned network address object include:

  * `address` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The assigned IPv4 or IPv6 address
  * `netmask` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The IPv4 or IPv6 network mask
  * `family` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Either `IPv4` or `IPv6`
  * `mac` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The MAC address of the network interface
  * `internal` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the network interface is a loopback or similar interface that is not remotely accessible; otherwise `false`
  * `scopeid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The numeric IPv6 scope ID (only specified when `family` is `IPv6`)
  * `cidr` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The assigned IPv4 or IPv6 address with the routing prefix in CIDR notation. If the `netmask` is invalid, this property is set to `null`.

    
    
    {
      lo: [
        {
          address: '127.0.0.1',
          netmask: '255.0.0.0',
          family: 'IPv4',
          mac: '00:00:00:00:00:00',
          internal: true,
          cidr: '127.0.0.1/8'
        },
        {
          address: '::1',
          netmask: 'ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff',
          family: 'IPv6',
          mac: '00:00:00:00:00:00',
          scopeid: 0,
          internal: true,
          cidr: '::1/128'
        }
      ],
      eth0: [
        {
          address: '192.168.1.108',
          netmask: '255.255.255.0',
          family: 'IPv4',
          mac: '01:02:03:0a:0b:0c',
          internal: false,
          cidr: '192.168.1.108/24'
        },
        {
          address: 'fe80::a00:27ff:fe4e:66a1',
          netmask: 'ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff::',
          family: 'IPv6',
          mac: '01:02:03:0a:0b:0c',
          scopeid: 1,
          internal: false,
          cidr: 'fe80::a00:27ff:fe4e:66a1/64'
        }
      ]
    } copy

### `os.platform()`#

Added in: v0.5.0

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns a string identifying the operating system platform for which the
Node.js binary was compiled. The value is set at compile time. Possible values
are `'aix'`, `'darwin'`, `'freebsd'`,`'linux'`, `'openbsd'`, `'sunos'`, and
`'win32'`.

The return value is equivalent to `process.platform`.

The value `'android'` may also be returned if Node.js is built on the Android
operating system. [Android support is
experimental](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/HEAD/BUILDING.md#android).

### `os.release()`#

Added in: v0.3.3

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the operating system as a string.

On POSIX systems, the operating system release is determined by calling
[`uname(3)`](https://linux.die.net/man/3/uname). On Windows, `GetVersionExW()`
is used. See <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uname#Examples> for more
information.

### `os.setPriority([pid, ]priority)`#

Added in: v10.10.0

  * `pid` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The process ID to set scheduling priority for. **Default:** `0`.
  * `priority` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The scheduling priority to assign to the process.

Attempts to set the scheduling priority for the process specified by `pid`. If
`pid` is not provided or is `0`, the process ID of the current process is
used.

The `priority` input must be an integer between `-20` (high priority) and `19`
(low priority). Due to differences between Unix priority levels and Windows
priority classes, `priority` is mapped to one of six priority constants in
`os.constants.priority`. When retrieving a process priority level, this range
mapping may cause the return value to be slightly different on Windows. To
avoid confusion, set `priority` to one of the priority constants.

On Windows, setting priority to `PRIORITY_HIGHEST` requires elevated user
privileges. Otherwise the set priority will be silently reduced to
`PRIORITY_HIGH`.

### `os.tmpdir()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v2.0.0 | This function is now cross-platform consistent and no longer returns a path with a trailing slash on any platform.  
v0.9.9 | Added in: v0.9.9  
  
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the operating system's default directory for temporary files as a
string.

On Windows, the result can be overridden by `TEMP` and `TMP` environment
variables, and `TEMP` takes precedence over `TMP`. If neither is set, it
defaults to `%SystemRoot%\temp` or `%windir%\temp`.

On non-Windows platforms, `TMPDIR`, `TMP` and `TEMP` environment variables
will be checked to override the result of this method, in the described order.
If none of them is set, it defaults to `/tmp`.

Some operating system distributions would either configure `TMPDIR` (non-
Windows) or `TEMP` and `TMP` (Windows) by default without additional
configurations by the system administrators. The result of `os.tmpdir()`
typically reflects the system preference unless it's explicitly overridden by
the users.

### `os.totalmem()`#

Added in: v0.3.3

  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the total amount of system memory in bytes as an integer.

### `os.type()`#

Added in: v0.3.3

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the operating system name as returned by
[`uname(3)`](https://linux.die.net/man/3/uname). For example, it returns
`'Linux'` on Linux, `'Darwin'` on macOS, and `'Windows_NT'` on Windows.

See <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uname#Examples> for additional information
about the output of running [`uname(3)`](https://linux.die.net/man/3/uname) on
various operating systems.

### `os.uptime()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | The result of this function no longer contains a fraction component on Windows.  
v0.3.3 | Added in: v0.3.3  
  
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the system uptime in number of seconds.

### `os.userInfo([options])`#

Added in: v6.0.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Character encoding used to interpret resulting strings. If `encoding` is set to `'buffer'`, the `username`, `shell`, and `homedir` values will be `Buffer` instances. **Default:** `'utf8'`.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns information about the currently effective user. On POSIX platforms,
this is typically a subset of the password file. The returned object includes
the `username`, `uid`, `gid`, `shell`, and `homedir`. On Windows, the `uid`
and `gid` fields are `-1`, and `shell` is `null`.

The value of `homedir` returned by `os.userInfo()` is provided by the
operating system. This differs from the result of `os.homedir()`, which
queries environment variables for the home directory before falling back to
the operating system response.

Throws a `SystemError` if a user has no `username` or `homedir`.

### `os.version()`#

Added in: v13.11.0, v12.17.0

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns a string identifying the kernel version.

On POSIX systems, the operating system release is determined by calling
[`uname(3)`](https://linux.die.net/man/3/uname). On Windows, `RtlGetVersion()`
is used, and if it is not available, `GetVersionExW()` will be used. See
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uname#Examples> for more information.

### OS constants#

The following constants are exported by `os.constants`.

Not all constants will be available on every operating system.

#### Signal constants#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v5.11.0 | Added support for `SIGINFO`.  
  
The following signal constants are exported by `os.constants.signals`.

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`SIGHUP` | Sent to indicate when a controlling terminal is closed or a parent process exits.  
`SIGINT` | Sent to indicate when a user wishes to interrupt a process (`Ctrl`+`C`).  
`SIGQUIT` | Sent to indicate when a user wishes to terminate a process and perform a core dump.  
`SIGILL` | Sent to a process to notify that it has attempted to perform an illegal, malformed, unknown, or privileged instruction.  
`SIGTRAP` | Sent to a process when an exception has occurred.  
`SIGABRT` | Sent to a process to request that it abort.  
`SIGIOT` | Synonym for `SIGABRT`  
`SIGBUS` | Sent to a process to notify that it has caused a bus error.  
`SIGFPE` | Sent to a process to notify that it has performed an illegal arithmetic operation.  
`SIGKILL` | Sent to a process to terminate it immediately.  
`SIGUSR1` `SIGUSR2` | Sent to a process to identify user-defined conditions.  
`SIGSEGV` | Sent to a process to notify of a segmentation fault.  
`SIGPIPE` | Sent to a process when it has attempted to write to a disconnected pipe.  
`SIGALRM` | Sent to a process when a system timer elapses.  
`SIGTERM` | Sent to a process to request termination.  
`SIGCHLD` | Sent to a process when a child process terminates.  
`SIGSTKFLT` | Sent to a process to indicate a stack fault on a coprocessor.  
`SIGCONT` | Sent to instruct the operating system to continue a paused process.  
`SIGSTOP` | Sent to instruct the operating system to halt a process.  
`SIGTSTP` | Sent to a process to request it to stop.  
`SIGBREAK` | Sent to indicate when a user wishes to interrupt a process.  
`SIGTTIN` | Sent to a process when it reads from the TTY while in the background.  
`SIGTTOU` | Sent to a process when it writes to the TTY while in the background.  
`SIGURG` | Sent to a process when a socket has urgent data to read.  
`SIGXCPU` | Sent to a process when it has exceeded its limit on CPU usage.  
`SIGXFSZ` | Sent to a process when it grows a file larger than the maximum allowed.  
`SIGVTALRM` | Sent to a process when a virtual timer has elapsed.  
`SIGPROF` | Sent to a process when a system timer has elapsed.  
`SIGWINCH` | Sent to a process when the controlling terminal has changed its size.  
`SIGIO` | Sent to a process when I/O is available.  
`SIGPOLL` | Synonym for `SIGIO`  
`SIGLOST` | Sent to a process when a file lock has been lost.  
`SIGPWR` | Sent to a process to notify of a power failure.  
`SIGINFO` | Synonym for `SIGPWR`  
`SIGSYS` | Sent to a process to notify of a bad argument.  
`SIGUNUSED` | Synonym for `SIGSYS`  
  
#### Error constants#

The following error constants are exported by `os.constants.errno`.

##### POSIX error constants#

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`E2BIG` | Indicates that the list of arguments is longer than expected.  
`EACCES` | Indicates that the operation did not have sufficient permissions.  
`EADDRINUSE` | Indicates that the network address is already in use.  
`EADDRNOTAVAIL` | Indicates that the network address is currently unavailable for use.  
`EAFNOSUPPORT` | Indicates that the network address family is not supported.  
`EAGAIN` | Indicates that there is no data available and to try the operation again later.  
`EALREADY` | Indicates that the socket already has a pending connection in progress.  
`EBADF` | Indicates that a file descriptor is not valid.  
`EBADMSG` | Indicates an invalid data message.  
`EBUSY` | Indicates that a device or resource is busy.  
`ECANCELED` | Indicates that an operation was canceled.  
`ECHILD` | Indicates that there are no child processes.  
`ECONNABORTED` | Indicates that the network connection has been aborted.  
`ECONNREFUSED` | Indicates that the network connection has been refused.  
`ECONNRESET` | Indicates that the network connection has been reset.  
`EDEADLK` | Indicates that a resource deadlock has been avoided.  
`EDESTADDRREQ` | Indicates that a destination address is required.  
`EDOM` | Indicates that an argument is out of the domain of the function.  
`EDQUOT` | Indicates that the disk quota has been exceeded.  
`EEXIST` | Indicates that the file already exists.  
`EFAULT` | Indicates an invalid pointer address.  
`EFBIG` | Indicates that the file is too large.  
`EHOSTUNREACH` | Indicates that the host is unreachable.  
`EIDRM` | Indicates that the identifier has been removed.  
`EILSEQ` | Indicates an illegal byte sequence.  
`EINPROGRESS` | Indicates that an operation is already in progress.  
`EINTR` | Indicates that a function call was interrupted.  
`EINVAL` | Indicates that an invalid argument was provided.  
`EIO` | Indicates an otherwise unspecified I/O error.  
`EISCONN` | Indicates that the socket is connected.  
`EISDIR` | Indicates that the path is a directory.  
`ELOOP` | Indicates too many levels of symbolic links in a path.  
`EMFILE` | Indicates that there are too many open files.  
`EMLINK` | Indicates that there are too many hard links to a file.  
`EMSGSIZE` | Indicates that the provided message is too long.  
`EMULTIHOP` | Indicates that a multihop was attempted.  
`ENAMETOOLONG` | Indicates that the filename is too long.  
`ENETDOWN` | Indicates that the network is down.  
`ENETRESET` | Indicates that the connection has been aborted by the network.  
`ENETUNREACH` | Indicates that the network is unreachable.  
`ENFILE` | Indicates too many open files in the system.  
`ENOBUFS` | Indicates that no buffer space is available.  
`ENODATA` | Indicates that no message is available on the stream head read queue.  
`ENODEV` | Indicates that there is no such device.  
`ENOENT` | Indicates that there is no such file or directory.  
`ENOEXEC` | Indicates an exec format error.  
`ENOLCK` | Indicates that there are no locks available.  
`ENOLINK` | Indications that a link has been severed.  
`ENOMEM` | Indicates that there is not enough space.  
`ENOMSG` | Indicates that there is no message of the desired type.  
`ENOPROTOOPT` | Indicates that a given protocol is not available.  
`ENOSPC` | Indicates that there is no space available on the device.  
`ENOSR` | Indicates that there are no stream resources available.  
`ENOSTR` | Indicates that a given resource is not a stream.  
`ENOSYS` | Indicates that a function has not been implemented.  
`ENOTCONN` | Indicates that the socket is not connected.  
`ENOTDIR` | Indicates that the path is not a directory.  
`ENOTEMPTY` | Indicates that the directory is not empty.  
`ENOTSOCK` | Indicates that the given item is not a socket.  
`ENOTSUP` | Indicates that a given operation is not supported.  
`ENOTTY` | Indicates an inappropriate I/O control operation.  
`ENXIO` | Indicates no such device or address.  
`EOPNOTSUPP` | Indicates that an operation is not supported on the socket. Although `ENOTSUP` and `EOPNOTSUPP` have the same value on Linux, according to POSIX.1 these error values should be distinct.)  
`EOVERFLOW` | Indicates that a value is too large to be stored in a given data type.  
`EPERM` | Indicates that the operation is not permitted.  
`EPIPE` | Indicates a broken pipe.  
`EPROTO` | Indicates a protocol error.  
`EPROTONOSUPPORT` | Indicates that a protocol is not supported.  
`EPROTOTYPE` | Indicates the wrong type of protocol for a socket.  
`ERANGE` | Indicates that the results are too large.  
`EROFS` | Indicates that the file system is read only.  
`ESPIPE` | Indicates an invalid seek operation.  
`ESRCH` | Indicates that there is no such process.  
`ESTALE` | Indicates that the file handle is stale.  
`ETIME` | Indicates an expired timer.  
`ETIMEDOUT` | Indicates that the connection timed out.  
`ETXTBSY` | Indicates that a text file is busy.  
`EWOULDBLOCK` | Indicates that the operation would block.  
`EXDEV` | Indicates an improper link.  
  
##### Windows-specific error constants#

The following error codes are specific to the Windows operating system.

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`WSAEINTR` | Indicates an interrupted function call.  
`WSAEBADF` | Indicates an invalid file handle.  
`WSAEACCES` | Indicates insufficient permissions to complete the operation.  
`WSAEFAULT` | Indicates an invalid pointer address.  
`WSAEINVAL` | Indicates that an invalid argument was passed.  
`WSAEMFILE` | Indicates that there are too many open files.  
`WSAEWOULDBLOCK` | Indicates that a resource is temporarily unavailable.  
`WSAEINPROGRESS` | Indicates that an operation is currently in progress.  
`WSAEALREADY` | Indicates that an operation is already in progress.  
`WSAENOTSOCK` | Indicates that the resource is not a socket.  
`WSAEDESTADDRREQ` | Indicates that a destination address is required.  
`WSAEMSGSIZE` | Indicates that the message size is too long.  
`WSAEPROTOTYPE` | Indicates the wrong protocol type for the socket.  
`WSAENOPROTOOPT` | Indicates a bad protocol option.  
`WSAEPROTONOSUPPORT` | Indicates that the protocol is not supported.  
`WSAESOCKTNOSUPPORT` | Indicates that the socket type is not supported.  
`WSAEOPNOTSUPP` | Indicates that the operation is not supported.  
`WSAEPFNOSUPPORT` | Indicates that the protocol family is not supported.  
`WSAEAFNOSUPPORT` | Indicates that the address family is not supported.  
`WSAEADDRINUSE` | Indicates that the network address is already in use.  
`WSAEADDRNOTAVAIL` | Indicates that the network address is not available.  
`WSAENETDOWN` | Indicates that the network is down.  
`WSAENETUNREACH` | Indicates that the network is unreachable.  
`WSAENETRESET` | Indicates that the network connection has been reset.  
`WSAECONNABORTED` | Indicates that the connection has been aborted.  
`WSAECONNRESET` | Indicates that the connection has been reset by the peer.  
`WSAENOBUFS` | Indicates that there is no buffer space available.  
`WSAEISCONN` | Indicates that the socket is already connected.  
`WSAENOTCONN` | Indicates that the socket is not connected.  
`WSAESHUTDOWN` | Indicates that data cannot be sent after the socket has been shutdown.  
`WSAETOOMANYREFS` | Indicates that there are too many references.  
`WSAETIMEDOUT` | Indicates that the connection has timed out.  
`WSAECONNREFUSED` | Indicates that the connection has been refused.  
`WSAELOOP` | Indicates that a name cannot be translated.  
`WSAENAMETOOLONG` | Indicates that a name was too long.  
`WSAEHOSTDOWN` | Indicates that a network host is down.  
`WSAEHOSTUNREACH` | Indicates that there is no route to a network host.  
`WSAENOTEMPTY` | Indicates that the directory is not empty.  
`WSAEPROCLIM` | Indicates that there are too many processes.  
`WSAEUSERS` | Indicates that the user quota has been exceeded.  
`WSAEDQUOT` | Indicates that the disk quota has been exceeded.  
`WSAESTALE` | Indicates a stale file handle reference.  
`WSAEREMOTE` | Indicates that the item is remote.  
`WSASYSNOTREADY` | Indicates that the network subsystem is not ready.  
`WSAVERNOTSUPPORTED` | Indicates that the `winsock.dll` version is out of range.  
`WSANOTINITIALISED` | Indicates that successful WSAStartup has not yet been performed.  
`WSAEDISCON` | Indicates that a graceful shutdown is in progress.  
`WSAENOMORE` | Indicates that there are no more results.  
`WSAECANCELLED` | Indicates that an operation has been canceled.  
`WSAEINVALIDPROCTABLE` | Indicates that the procedure call table is invalid.  
`WSAEINVALIDPROVIDER` | Indicates an invalid service provider.  
`WSAEPROVIDERFAILEDINIT` | Indicates that the service provider failed to initialized.  
`WSASYSCALLFAILURE` | Indicates a system call failure.  
`WSASERVICE_NOT_FOUND` | Indicates that a service was not found.  
`WSATYPE_NOT_FOUND` | Indicates that a class type was not found.  
`WSA_E_NO_MORE` | Indicates that there are no more results.  
`WSA_E_CANCELLED` | Indicates that the call was canceled.  
`WSAEREFUSED` | Indicates that a database query was refused.  
  
#### dlopen constants#

If available on the operating system, the following constants are exported in
`os.constants.dlopen`. See [`dlopen(3)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man3/dlopen.3.html) for detailed information.

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`RTLD_LAZY` | Perform lazy binding. Node.js sets this flag by default.  
`RTLD_NOW` | Resolve all undefined symbols in the library before dlopen(3) returns.  
`RTLD_GLOBAL` | Symbols defined by the library will be made available for symbol resolution of subsequently loaded libraries.  
`RTLD_LOCAL` | The converse of `RTLD_GLOBAL`. This is the default behavior if neither flag is specified.  
`RTLD_DEEPBIND` | Make a self-contained library use its own symbols in preference to symbols from previously loaded libraries.  
  
#### Priority constants#

Added in: v10.10.0

The following process scheduling constants are exported by
`os.constants.priority`.

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`PRIORITY_LOW` | The lowest process scheduling priority. This corresponds to `IDLE_PRIORITY_CLASS` on Windows, and a nice value of `19` on all other platforms.  
`PRIORITY_BELOW_NORMAL` | The process scheduling priority above `PRIORITY_LOW` and below `PRIORITY_NORMAL`. This corresponds to `BELOW_NORMAL_PRIORITY_CLASS` on Windows, and a nice value of `10` on all other platforms.  
`PRIORITY_NORMAL` | The default process scheduling priority. This corresponds to `NORMAL_PRIORITY_CLASS` on Windows, and a nice value of `0` on all other platforms.  
`PRIORITY_ABOVE_NORMAL` | The process scheduling priority above `PRIORITY_NORMAL` and below `PRIORITY_HIGH`. This corresponds to `ABOVE_NORMAL_PRIORITY_CLASS` on Windows, and a nice value of `-7` on all other platforms.  
`PRIORITY_HIGH` | The process scheduling priority above `PRIORITY_ABOVE_NORMAL` and below `PRIORITY_HIGHEST`. This corresponds to `HIGH_PRIORITY_CLASS` on Windows, and a nice value of `-14` on all other platforms.  
`PRIORITY_HIGHEST` | The highest process scheduling priority. This corresponds to `REALTIME_PRIORITY_CLASS` on Windows, and a nice value of `-20` on all other platforms.  
  
#### libuv constants#

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`UV_UDP_REUSEADDR` |   
  
## Path#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/path.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/path.js)

The `node:path` module provides utilities for working with file and directory
paths. It can be accessed using:

    
    
    const path = require('node:path');import path from 'node:path';copy

### Windows vs. POSIX#

The default operation of the `node:path` module varies based on the operating
system on which a Node.js application is running. Specifically, when running
on a Windows operating system, the `node:path` module will assume that
Windows-style paths are being used.

So using `path.basename()` might yield different results on POSIX and Windows:

On POSIX:

    
    
    path.basename('C:\\temp\\myfile.html');
    // Returns: 'C:\\temp\\myfile.html' copy

On Windows:

    
    
    path.basename('C:\\temp\\myfile.html');
    // Returns: 'myfile.html' copy

To achieve consistent results when working with Windows file paths on any
operating system, use `path.win32`:

On POSIX and Windows:

    
    
    path.win32.basename('C:\\temp\\myfile.html');
    // Returns: 'myfile.html' copy

To achieve consistent results when working with POSIX file paths on any
operating system, use `path.posix`:

On POSIX and Windows:

    
    
    path.posix.basename('/tmp/myfile.html');
    // Returns: 'myfile.html' copy

On Windows Node.js follows the concept of per-drive working directory. This
behavior can be observed when using a drive path without a backslash. For
example, `path.resolve('C:\\')` can potentially return a different result than
`path.resolve('C:')`. For more information, see [this MSDN
page](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/FileIO/naming-a-
file#fully-qualified-vs-relative-paths).

### `path.basename(path[, suffix])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.0.0 | Passing a non-string as the `path` argument will throw now.  
v0.1.25 | Added in: v0.1.25  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `suffix` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) An optional suffix to remove
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `path.basename()` method returns the last portion of a `path`, similar to
the Unix `basename` command. Trailing directory separators are ignored.

    
    
    path.basename('/foo/bar/baz/asdf/quux.html');
    // Returns: 'quux.html'
    
    path.basename('/foo/bar/baz/asdf/quux.html', '.html');
    // Returns: 'quux' copy

Although Windows usually treats file names, including file extensions, in a
case-insensitive manner, this function does not. For example, `C:\\foo.html`
and `C:\\foo.HTML` refer to the same file, but `basename` treats the extension
as a case-sensitive string:

    
    
    path.win32.basename('C:\\foo.html', '.html');
    // Returns: 'foo'
    
    path.win32.basename('C:\\foo.HTML', '.html');
    // Returns: 'foo.HTML' copy

A `TypeError` is thrown if `path` is not a string or if `suffix` is given and
is not a string.

### `path.delimiter`#

Added in: v0.9.3

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Provides the platform-specific path delimiter:

  * `;` for Windows
  * `:` for POSIX

For example, on POSIX:

    
    
    console.log(process.env.PATH);
    // Prints: '/usr/bin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/sbin:/usr/local/bin'
    
    process.env.PATH.split(path.delimiter);
    // Returns: ['/usr/bin', '/bin', '/usr/sbin', '/sbin', '/usr/local/bin'] copy

On Windows:

    
    
    console.log(process.env.PATH);
    // Prints: 'C:\Windows\system32;C:\Windows;C:\Program Files\node\'
    
    process.env.PATH.split(path.delimiter);
    // Returns ['C:\\Windows\\system32', 'C:\\Windows', 'C:\\Program Files\\node\\'] copy

### `path.dirname(path)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.0.0 | Passing a non-string as the `path` argument will throw now.  
v0.1.16 | Added in: v0.1.16  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `path.dirname()` method returns the directory name of a `path`, similar to
the Unix `dirname` command. Trailing directory separators are ignored, see
`path.sep`.

    
    
    path.dirname('/foo/bar/baz/asdf/quux');
    // Returns: '/foo/bar/baz/asdf' copy

A `TypeError` is thrown if `path` is not a string.

### `path.extname(path)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.0.0 | Passing a non-string as the `path` argument will throw now.  
v0.1.25 | Added in: v0.1.25  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `path.extname()` method returns the extension of the `path`, from the last
occurrence of the `.` (period) character to end of string in the last portion
of the `path`. If there is no `.` in the last portion of the `path`, or if
there are no `.` characters other than the first character of the basename of
`path` (see `path.basename()`) , an empty string is returned.

    
    
    path.extname('index.html');
    // Returns: '.html'
    
    path.extname('index.coffee.md');
    // Returns: '.md'
    
    path.extname('index.');
    // Returns: '.'
    
    path.extname('index');
    // Returns: ''
    
    path.extname('.index');
    // Returns: ''
    
    path.extname('.index.md');
    // Returns: '.md' copy

A `TypeError` is thrown if `path` is not a string.

### `path.format(pathObject)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | The dot will be added if it is not specified in `ext`.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `pathObject` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Any JavaScript object having the following properties: 
    * `dir` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `root` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `base` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `ext` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `path.format()` method returns a path string from an object. This is the
opposite of `path.parse()`.

When providing properties to the `pathObject` remember that there are
combinations where one property has priority over another:

  * `pathObject.root` is ignored if `pathObject.dir` is provided
  * `pathObject.ext` and `pathObject.name` are ignored if `pathObject.base` exists

For example, on POSIX:

    
    
    // If `dir`, `root` and `base` are provided,
    // `${dir}${path.sep}${base}`
    // will be returned. `root` is ignored.
    path.format({
      root: '/ignored',
      dir: '/home/user/dir',
      base: 'file.txt',
    });
    // Returns: '/home/user/dir/file.txt'
    
    // `root` will be used if `dir` is not specified.
    // If only `root` is provided or `dir` is equal to `root` then the
    // platform separator will not be included. `ext` will be ignored.
    path.format({
      root: '/',
      base: 'file.txt',
      ext: 'ignored',
    });
    // Returns: '/file.txt'
    
    // `name` + `ext` will be used if `base` is not specified.
    path.format({
      root: '/',
      name: 'file',
      ext: '.txt',
    });
    // Returns: '/file.txt'
    
    // The dot will be added if it is not specified in `ext`.
    path.format({
      root: '/',
      name: 'file',
      ext: 'txt',
    });
    // Returns: '/file.txt' copy

On Windows:

    
    
    path.format({
      dir: 'C:\\path\\dir',
      base: 'file.txt',
    });
    // Returns: 'C:\\path\\dir\\file.txt' copy

### `path.matchesGlob(path, pattern)`#

Added in: v22.5.0, v20.17.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The path to glob-match against.
  * `pattern` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The glob to check the path against.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether or not the `path` matched the `pattern`.

The `path.matchesGlob()` method determines if `path` matches the `pattern`.

For example:

    
    
    path.matchesGlob('/foo/bar', '/foo/*'); // true
    path.matchesGlob('/foo/bar*', 'foo/bird'); // false copy

A `TypeError` is thrown if `path` or `pattern` are not strings.

### `path.isAbsolute(path)`#

Added in: v0.11.2

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `path.isAbsolute()` method determines if the literal `path` is absolute.
Therefore, it’s not safe for mitigating path traversals.

If the given `path` is a zero-length string, `false` will be returned.

For example, on POSIX:

    
    
    path.isAbsolute('/foo/bar');   // true
    path.isAbsolute('/baz/..');    // true
    path.isAbsolute('/baz/../..'); // true
    path.isAbsolute('qux/');       // false
    path.isAbsolute('.');          // false copy

On Windows:

    
    
    path.isAbsolute('//server');    // true
    path.isAbsolute('\\\\server');  // true
    path.isAbsolute('C:/foo/..');   // true
    path.isAbsolute('C:\\foo\\..'); // true
    path.isAbsolute('bar\\baz');    // false
    path.isAbsolute('bar/baz');     // false
    path.isAbsolute('.');           // false copy

A `TypeError` is thrown if `path` is not a string.

### `path.join([...paths])`#

Added in: v0.1.16

  * `...paths` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A sequence of path segments
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `path.join()` method joins all given `path` segments together using the
platform-specific separator as a delimiter, then normalizes the resulting
path.

Zero-length `path` segments are ignored. If the joined path string is a zero-
length string then `'.'` will be returned, representing the current working
directory.

    
    
    path.join('/foo', 'bar', 'baz/asdf', 'quux', '..');
    // Returns: '/foo/bar/baz/asdf'
    
    path.join('foo', {}, 'bar');
    // Throws 'TypeError: Path must be a string. Received {}' copy

A `TypeError` is thrown if any of the path segments is not a string.

### `path.normalize(path)`#

Added in: v0.1.23

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `path.normalize()` method normalizes the given `path`, resolving `'..'`
and `'.'` segments.

When multiple, sequential path segment separation characters are found (e.g.
`/` on POSIX and either `\` or `/` on Windows), they are replaced by a single
instance of the platform-specific path segment separator (`/` on POSIX and `\`
on Windows). Trailing separators are preserved.

If the `path` is a zero-length string, `'.'` is returned, representing the
current working directory.

On POSIX, the types of normalization applied by this function do not strictly
adhere to the POSIX specification. For example, this function will replace two
leading forward slashes with a single slash as if it was a regular absolute
path, whereas a few POSIX systems assign special meaning to paths beginning
with exactly two forward slashes. Similarly, other substitutions performed by
this function, such as removing `..` segments, may change how the underlying
system resolves the path.

For example, on POSIX:

    
    
    path.normalize('/foo/bar//baz/asdf/quux/..');
    // Returns: '/foo/bar/baz/asdf' copy

On Windows:

    
    
    path.normalize('C:\\temp\\\\foo\\bar\\..\\');
    // Returns: 'C:\\temp\\foo\\' copy

Since Windows recognizes multiple path separators, both separators will be
replaced by instances of the Windows preferred separator (`\`):

    
    
    path.win32.normalize('C:////temp\\\\/\\/\\/foo/bar');
    // Returns: 'C:\\temp\\foo\\bar' copy

A `TypeError` is thrown if `path` is not a string.

### `path.parse(path)`#

Added in: v0.11.15

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The `path.parse()` method returns an object whose properties represent
significant elements of the `path`. Trailing directory separators are ignored,
see `path.sep`.

The returned object will have the following properties:

  * `dir` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `root` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `base` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `ext` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

For example, on POSIX:

    
    
    path.parse('/home/user/dir/file.txt');
    // Returns:
    // { root: '/',
    //   dir: '/home/user/dir',
    //   base: 'file.txt',
    //   ext: '.txt',
    //   name: 'file' } copy
    
    
    ┌─────────────────────┬────────────┐
    │          dir        │    base    │
    ├──────┬              ├──────┬─────┤
    │ root │              │ name │ ext │
    "  /    home/user/dir / file  .txt "
    └──────┴──────────────┴──────┴─────┘
    (All spaces in the "" line should be ignored. They are purely for formatting.) copy

On Windows:

    
    
    path.parse('C:\\path\\dir\\file.txt');
    // Returns:
    // { root: 'C:\\',
    //   dir: 'C:\\path\\dir',
    //   base: 'file.txt',
    //   ext: '.txt',
    //   name: 'file' } copy
    
    
    ┌─────────────────────┬────────────┐
    │          dir        │    base    │
    ├──────┬              ├──────┬─────┤
    │ root │              │ name │ ext │
    " C:\      path\dir   \ file  .txt "
    └──────┴──────────────┴──────┴─────┘
    (All spaces in the "" line should be ignored. They are purely for formatting.) copy

A `TypeError` is thrown if `path` is not a string.

### `path.posix`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.3.0 | Exposed as `require('path/posix')`.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The `path.posix` property provides access to POSIX specific implementations of
the `path` methods.

The API is accessible via `require('node:path').posix` or
`require('node:path/posix')`.

### `path.relative(from, to)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.8.0 | On Windows, the leading slashes for UNC paths are now included in the return value.  
v0.5.0 | Added in: v0.5.0  
  
  * `from` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `to` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `path.relative()` method returns the relative path from `from` to `to`
based on the current working directory. If `from` and `to` each resolve to the
same path (after calling `path.resolve()` on each), a zero-length string is
returned.

If a zero-length string is passed as `from` or `to`, the current working
directory will be used instead of the zero-length strings.

For example, on POSIX:

    
    
    path.relative('/data/orandea/test/aaa', '/data/orandea/impl/bbb');
    // Returns: '../../impl/bbb' copy

On Windows:

    
    
    path.relative('C:\\orandea\\test\\aaa', 'C:\\orandea\\impl\\bbb');
    // Returns: '..\\..\\impl\\bbb' copy

A `TypeError` is thrown if either `from` or `to` is not a string.

### `path.resolve([...paths])`#

Added in: v0.3.4

  * `...paths` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A sequence of paths or path segments
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `path.resolve()` method resolves a sequence of paths or path segments into
an absolute path.

The given sequence of paths is processed from right to left, with each
subsequent `path` prepended until an absolute path is constructed. For
instance, given the sequence of path segments: `/foo`, `/bar`, `baz`, calling
`path.resolve('/foo', '/bar', 'baz')` would return `/bar/baz` because `'baz'`
is not an absolute path but `'/bar' + '/' + 'baz'` is.

If, after processing all given `path` segments, an absolute path has not yet
been generated, the current working directory is used.

The resulting path is normalized and trailing slashes are removed unless the
path is resolved to the root directory.

Zero-length `path` segments are ignored.

If no `path` segments are passed, `path.resolve()` will return the absolute
path of the current working directory.

    
    
    path.resolve('/foo/bar', './baz');
    // Returns: '/foo/bar/baz'
    
    path.resolve('/foo/bar', '/tmp/file/');
    // Returns: '/tmp/file'
    
    path.resolve('wwwroot', 'static_files/png/', '../gif/image.gif');
    // If the current working directory is /home/myself/node,
    // this returns '/home/myself/node/wwwroot/static_files/gif/image.gif' copy

A `TypeError` is thrown if any of the arguments is not a string.

### `path.sep`#

Added in: v0.7.9

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Provides the platform-specific path segment separator:

  * `\` on Windows
  * `/` on POSIX

For example, on POSIX:

    
    
    'foo/bar/baz'.split(path.sep);
    // Returns: ['foo', 'bar', 'baz'] copy

On Windows:

    
    
    'foo\\bar\\baz'.split(path.sep);
    // Returns: ['foo', 'bar', 'baz'] copy

On Windows, both the forward slash (`/`) and backward slash (`\`) are accepted
as path segment separators; however, the `path` methods only add backward
slashes (`\`).

### `path.toNamespacedPath(path)`#

Added in: v9.0.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

On Windows systems only, returns an equivalent [namespace-prefixed
path](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/desktop/FileIO/naming-a-
file#namespaces) for the given `path`. If `path` is not a string, `path` will
be returned without modifications.

This method is meaningful only on Windows systems. On POSIX systems, the
method is non-operational and always returns `path` without modifications.

### `path.win32`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.3.0 | Exposed as `require('path/win32')`.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The `path.win32` property provides access to Windows-specific implementations
of the `path` methods.

The API is accessible via `require('node:path').win32` or
`require('node:path/win32')`.

## Performance measurement APIs#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/perf_hooks.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/perf_hooks.js)

This module provides an implementation of a subset of the W3C [Web Performance
APIs](https://w3c.github.io/perf-timing-primer/) as well as additional APIs
for Node.js-specific performance measurements.

Node.js supports the following [Web Performance
APIs](https://w3c.github.io/perf-timing-primer/):

  * [High Resolution Time](https://www.w3.org/TR/hr-time-2)
  * [Performance Timeline](https://w3c.github.io/performance-timeline/)
  * [User Timing](https://www.w3.org/TR/user-timing/)
  * [Resource Timing](https://www.w3.org/TR/resource-timing-2/)

    
    
    import { performance, PerformanceObserver } from 'node:perf_hooks';
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((items) => {
      console.log(items.getEntries()[0].duration);
      performance.clearMarks();
    });
    obs.observe({ type: 'measure' });
    performance.measure('Start to Now');
    
    performance.mark('A');
    doSomeLongRunningProcess(() => {
      performance.measure('A to Now', 'A');
    
      performance.mark('B');
      performance.measure('A to B', 'A', 'B');
    });const { PerformanceObserver, performance } = require('node:perf_hooks');
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((items) => {
      console.log(items.getEntries()[0].duration);
    });
    obs.observe({ type: 'measure' });
    performance.measure('Start to Now');
    
    performance.mark('A');
    (async function doSomeLongRunningProcess() {
      await new Promise((r) => setTimeout(r, 5000));
      performance.measure('A to Now', 'A');
    
      performance.mark('B');
      performance.measure('A to B', 'A', 'B');
    })();copy

### `perf_hooks.performance`#

Added in: v8.5.0

An object that can be used to collect performance metrics from the current
Node.js instance. It is similar to
[`window.performance`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/Window/performance) in browsers.

#### `performance.clearMarks([name])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This method must be called with the `performance` object as the receiver.  
v8.5.0 | Added in: v8.5.0  
  
  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

If `name` is not provided, removes all `PerformanceMark` objects from the
Performance Timeline. If `name` is provided, removes only the named mark.

#### `performance.clearMeasures([name])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This method must be called with the `performance` object as the receiver.  
v16.7.0 | Added in: v16.7.0  
  
  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

If `name` is not provided, removes all `PerformanceMeasure` objects from the
Performance Timeline. If `name` is provided, removes only the named measure.

#### `performance.clearResourceTimings([name])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This method must be called with the `performance` object as the receiver.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

If `name` is not provided, removes all `PerformanceResourceTiming` objects
from the Resource Timeline. If `name` is provided, removes only the named
resource.

#### `performance.eventLoopUtilization([utilization1[, utilization2]])`#

Added in: v14.10.0, v12.19.0

  * `utilization1` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The result of a previous call to `eventLoopUtilization()`.
  * `utilization2` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The result of a previous call to `eventLoopUtilization()` prior to `utilization1`.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `idle` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `active` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `utilization` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `eventLoopUtilization()` method returns an object that contains the
cumulative duration of time the event loop has been both idle and active as a
high resolution milliseconds timer. The `utilization` value is the calculated
Event Loop Utilization (ELU).

If bootstrapping has not yet finished on the main thread the properties have
the value of `0`. The ELU is immediately available on Worker threads since
bootstrap happens within the event loop.

Both `utilization1` and `utilization2` are optional parameters.

If `utilization1` is passed, then the delta between the current call's
`active` and `idle` times, as well as the corresponding `utilization` value
are calculated and returned (similar to `process.hrtime()`).

If `utilization1` and `utilization2` are both passed, then the delta is
calculated between the two arguments. This is a convenience option because,
unlike `process.hrtime()`, calculating the ELU is more complex than a single
subtraction.

ELU is similar to CPU utilization, except that it only measures event loop
statistics and not CPU usage. It represents the percentage of time the event
loop has spent outside the event loop's event provider (e.g. `epoll_wait`). No
other CPU idle time is taken into consideration. The following is an example
of how a mostly idle process will have a high ELU.

    
    
    import { eventLoopUtilization } from 'node:perf_hooks';
    import { spawnSync } from 'node:child_process';
    
    setImmediate(() => {
      const elu = eventLoopUtilization();
      spawnSync('sleep', ['5']);
      console.log(eventLoopUtilization(elu).utilization);
    });'use strict';
    const { eventLoopUtilization } = require('node:perf_hooks').performance;
    const { spawnSync } = require('node:child_process');
    
    setImmediate(() => {
      const elu = eventLoopUtilization();
      spawnSync('sleep', ['5']);
      console.log(eventLoopUtilization(elu).utilization);
    });copy

Although the CPU is mostly idle while running this script, the value of
`utilization` is `1`. This is because the call to `child_process.spawnSync()`
blocks the event loop from proceeding.

Passing in a user-defined object instead of the result of a previous call to
`eventLoopUtilization()` will lead to undefined behavior. The return values
are not guaranteed to reflect any correct state of the event loop.

#### `performance.getEntries()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This method must be called with the `performance` object as the receiver.  
v16.7.0 | Added in: v16.7.0  
  
  * Returns: <PerformanceEntry[]>

Returns a list of `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order with
respect to `performanceEntry.startTime`. If you are only interested in
performance entries of certain types or that have certain names, see
`performance.getEntriesByType()` and `performance.getEntriesByName()`.

#### `performance.getEntriesByName(name[, type])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This method must be called with the `performance` object as the receiver.  
v16.7.0 | Added in: v16.7.0  
  
  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: <PerformanceEntry[]>

Returns a list of `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order with
respect to `performanceEntry.startTime` whose `performanceEntry.name` is equal
to `name`, and optionally, whose `performanceEntry.entryType` is equal to
`type`.

#### `performance.getEntriesByType(type)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This method must be called with the `performance` object as the receiver.  
v16.7.0 | Added in: v16.7.0  
  
  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: <PerformanceEntry[]>

Returns a list of `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order with
respect to `performanceEntry.startTime` whose `performanceEntry.entryType` is
equal to `type`.

#### `performance.mark(name[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This method must be called with the `performance` object as the receiver. The name argument is no longer optional.  
v16.0.0 | Updated to conform to the User Timing Level 3 specification.  
v8.5.0 | Added in: v8.5.0  
  
  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `detail` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Additional optional detail to include with the mark.
    * `startTime` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) An optional timestamp to be used as the mark time. **Default** : `performance.now()`.

Creates a new `PerformanceMark` entry in the Performance Timeline. A
`PerformanceMark` is a subclass of `PerformanceEntry` whose
`performanceEntry.entryType` is always `'mark'`, and whose
`performanceEntry.duration` is always `0`. Performance marks are used to mark
specific significant moments in the Performance Timeline.

The created `PerformanceMark` entry is put in the global Performance Timeline
and can be queried with `performance.getEntries`,
`performance.getEntriesByName`, and `performance.getEntriesByType`. When the
observation is performed, the entries should be cleared from the global
Performance Timeline manually with `performance.clearMarks`.

#### `performance.markResourceTiming(timingInfo, requestedUrl, initiatorType,
global, cacheMode, bodyInfo, responseStatus[, deliveryType])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.2.0 | Added bodyInfo, responseStatus, and deliveryType arguments.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * `timingInfo` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) [Fetch Timing Info](https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/#fetch-timing-info)
  * `requestedUrl` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The resource url
  * `initiatorType` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The initiator name, e.g: 'fetch'
  * `global` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * `cacheMode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The cache mode must be an empty string ('') or 'local'
  * `bodyInfo` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) [Fetch Response Body Info](https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/#response-body-info)
  * `responseStatus` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The response's status code
  * `deliveryType` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The delivery type. **Default:** `''`.

_This property is an extension by Node.js. It is not available in Web
browsers._

Creates a new `PerformanceResourceTiming` entry in the Resource Timeline. A
`PerformanceResourceTiming` is a subclass of `PerformanceEntry` whose
`performanceEntry.entryType` is always `'resource'`. Performance resources are
used to mark moments in the Resource Timeline.

The created `PerformanceMark` entry is put in the global Resource Timeline and
can be queried with `performance.getEntries`, `performance.getEntriesByName`,
and `performance.getEntriesByType`. When the observation is performed, the
entries should be cleared from the global Performance Timeline manually with
`performance.clearResourceTimings`.

#### `performance.measure(name[, startMarkOrOptions[, endMark]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This method must be called with the `performance` object as the receiver.  
v16.0.0 | Updated to conform to the User Timing Level 3 specification.  
v13.13.0, v12.16.3 | Make `startMark` and `endMark` parameters optional.  
v8.5.0 | Added in: v8.5.0  
  
  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `startMarkOrOptions` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Optional. 
    * `detail` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Additional optional detail to include with the measure.
    * `duration` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Duration between start and end times.
    * `end` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Timestamp to be used as the end time, or a string identifying a previously recorded mark.
    * `start` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Timestamp to be used as the start time, or a string identifying a previously recorded mark.
  * `endMark` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Optional. Must be omitted if `startMarkOrOptions` is an [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object).

Creates a new `PerformanceMeasure` entry in the Performance Timeline. A
`PerformanceMeasure` is a subclass of `PerformanceEntry` whose
`performanceEntry.entryType` is always `'measure'`, and whose
`performanceEntry.duration` measures the number of milliseconds elapsed since
`startMark` and `endMark`.

The `startMark` argument may identify any _existing_ `PerformanceMark` in the
Performance Timeline, or _may_ identify any of the timestamp properties
provided by the `PerformanceNodeTiming` class. If the named `startMark` does
not exist, an error is thrown.

The optional `endMark` argument must identify any _existing_ `PerformanceMark`
in the Performance Timeline or any of the timestamp properties provided by the
`PerformanceNodeTiming` class. `endMark` will be `performance.now()` if no
parameter is passed, otherwise if the named `endMark` does not exist, an error
will be thrown.

The created `PerformanceMeasure` entry is put in the global Performance
Timeline and can be queried with `performance.getEntries`,
`performance.getEntriesByName`, and `performance.getEntriesByType`. When the
observation is performed, the entries should be cleared from the global
Performance Timeline manually with `performance.clearMeasures`.

#### `performance.nodeTiming`#

Added in: v8.5.0

  * <PerformanceNodeTiming>

_This property is an extension by Node.js. It is not available in Web
browsers._

An instance of the `PerformanceNodeTiming` class that provides performance
metrics for specific Node.js operational milestones.

#### `performance.now()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This method must be called with the `performance` object as the receiver.  
v8.5.0 | Added in: v8.5.0  
  
  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the current high resolution millisecond timestamp, where 0 represents
the start of the current `node` process.

#### `performance.setResourceTimingBufferSize(maxSize)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This method must be called with the `performance` object as the receiver.  
v18.8.0 | Added in: v18.8.0  
  
Sets the global performance resource timing buffer size to the specified
number of "resource" type performance entry objects.

By default the max buffer size is set to 250.

#### `performance.timeOrigin`#

Added in: v8.5.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The [`timeOrigin`](https://w3c.github.io/hr-time/#dom-performance-timeorigin)
specifies the high resolution millisecond timestamp at which the current
`node` process began, measured in Unix time.

#### `performance.timerify(fn[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | Added the histogram option.  
v16.0.0 | Re-implemented to use pure-JavaScript and the ability to time async functions.  
v8.5.0 | Added in: v8.5.0  
  
  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `histogram` <RecordableHistogram> A histogram object created using `perf_hooks.createHistogram()` that will record runtime durations in nanoseconds.

_This property is an extension by Node.js. It is not available in Web
browsers._

Wraps a function within a new function that measures the running time of the
wrapped function. A `PerformanceObserver` must be subscribed to the
`'function'` event type in order for the timing details to be accessed.

    
    
    import { performance, PerformanceObserver } from 'node:perf_hooks';
    
    function someFunction() {
      console.log('hello world');
    }
    
    const wrapped = performance.timerify(someFunction);
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list) => {
      console.log(list.getEntries()[0].duration);
    
      performance.clearMarks();
      performance.clearMeasures();
      obs.disconnect();
    });
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['function'] });
    
    // A performance timeline entry will be created
    wrapped();const {
      performance,
      PerformanceObserver,
    } = require('node:perf_hooks');
    
    function someFunction() {
      console.log('hello world');
    }
    
    const wrapped = performance.timerify(someFunction);
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list) => {
      console.log(list.getEntries()[0].duration);
    
      performance.clearMarks();
      performance.clearMeasures();
      obs.disconnect();
    });
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['function'] });
    
    // A performance timeline entry will be created
    wrapped();copy

If the wrapped function returns a promise, a finally handler will be attached
to the promise and the duration will be reported once the finally handler is
invoked.

#### `performance.toJSON()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This method must be called with the `performance` object as the receiver.  
v16.1.0 | Added in: v16.1.0  
  
An object which is JSON representation of the `performance` object. It is
similar to [`window.performance.toJSON`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/Performance/toJSON) in browsers.

##### Event: `'resourcetimingbufferfull'`#

Added in: v18.8.0

The `'resourcetimingbufferfull'` event is fired when the global performance
resource timing buffer is full. Adjust resource timing buffer size with
`performance.setResourceTimingBufferSize()` or clear the buffer with
`performance.clearResourceTimings()` in the event listener to allow more
entries to be added to the performance timeline buffer.

### Class: `PerformanceEntry`#

Added in: v8.5.0

The constructor of this class is not exposed to users directly.

#### `performanceEntry.duration`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceEntry` object as the receiver.  
v8.5.0 | Added in: v8.5.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The total number of milliseconds elapsed for this entry. This value will not
be meaningful for all Performance Entry types.

#### `performanceEntry.entryType`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceEntry` object as the receiver.  
v8.5.0 | Added in: v8.5.0  
  
  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The type of the performance entry. It may be one of:

  * `'dns'` (Node.js only)
  * `'function'` (Node.js only)
  * `'gc'` (Node.js only)
  * `'http2'` (Node.js only)
  * `'http'` (Node.js only)
  * `'mark'` (available on the Web)
  * `'measure'` (available on the Web)
  * `'net'` (Node.js only)
  * `'node'` (Node.js only)
  * `'resource'` (available on the Web)

#### `performanceEntry.name`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceEntry` object as the receiver.  
v8.5.0 | Added in: v8.5.0  
  
  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The name of the performance entry.

#### `performanceEntry.startTime`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceEntry` object as the receiver.  
v8.5.0 | Added in: v8.5.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp marking the starting time of the
Performance Entry.

### Class: `PerformanceMark`#

Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0

  * Extends: <PerformanceEntry>

Exposes marks created via the `Performance.mark()` method.

#### `performanceMark.detail`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceMark` object as the receiver.  
v16.0.0 | Added in: v16.0.0  
  
  * [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Additional detail specified when creating with `Performance.mark()` method.

### Class: `PerformanceMeasure`#

Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0

  * Extends: <PerformanceEntry>

Exposes measures created via the `Performance.measure()` method.

The constructor of this class is not exposed to users directly.

#### `performanceMeasure.detail`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceMeasure` object as the receiver.  
v16.0.0 | Added in: v16.0.0  
  
  * [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Additional detail specified when creating with `Performance.measure()` method.

### Class: `PerformanceNodeEntry`#

Added in: v19.0.0

  * Extends: <PerformanceEntry>

_This class is an extension by Node.js. It is not available in Web browsers._

Provides detailed Node.js timing data.

The constructor of this class is not exposed to users directly.

#### `performanceNodeEntry.detail`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceNodeEntry` object as the receiver.  
v16.0.0 | Added in: v16.0.0  
  
  * [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Additional detail specific to the `entryType`.

#### `performanceNodeEntry.flags`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | Runtime deprecated. Now moved to the detail property when entryType is 'gc'.  
v13.9.0, v12.17.0 | Added in: v13.9.0, v12.17.0  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `performanceNodeEntry.detail` instead.

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

When `performanceEntry.entryType` is equal to `'gc'`, the `performance.flags`
property contains additional information about garbage collection operation.
The value may be one of:

  * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_FLAGS_NO`
  * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_FLAGS_CONSTRUCT_RETAINED`
  * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_FLAGS_FORCED`
  * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_FLAGS_SYNCHRONOUS_PHANTOM_PROCESSING`
  * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_FLAGS_ALL_AVAILABLE_GARBAGE`
  * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_FLAGS_ALL_EXTERNAL_MEMORY`
  * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_FLAGS_SCHEDULE_IDLE`

#### `performanceNodeEntry.kind`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | Runtime deprecated. Now moved to the detail property when entryType is 'gc'.  
v8.5.0 | Added in: v8.5.0  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `performanceNodeEntry.detail` instead.

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

When `performanceEntry.entryType` is equal to `'gc'`, the `performance.kind`
property identifies the type of garbage collection operation that occurred.
The value may be one of:

  * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_MAJOR`
  * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_MINOR`
  * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_INCREMENTAL`
  * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_WEAKCB`

#### Garbage Collection ('gc') Details#

When `performanceEntry.type` is equal to `'gc'`, the
`performanceNodeEntry.detail` property will be an
[<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) with two properties:

  * `kind` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) One of: 
    * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_MAJOR`
    * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_MINOR`
    * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_INCREMENTAL`
    * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_WEAKCB`
  * `flags` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) One of: 
    * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_FLAGS_NO`
    * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_FLAGS_CONSTRUCT_RETAINED`
    * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_FLAGS_FORCED`
    * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_FLAGS_SYNCHRONOUS_PHANTOM_PROCESSING`
    * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_FLAGS_ALL_AVAILABLE_GARBAGE`
    * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_FLAGS_ALL_EXTERNAL_MEMORY`
    * `perf_hooks.constants.NODE_PERFORMANCE_GC_FLAGS_SCHEDULE_IDLE`

#### HTTP ('http') Details#

When `performanceEntry.type` is equal to `'http'`, the
`performanceNodeEntry.detail` property will be an
[<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) containing additional
information.

If `performanceEntry.name` is equal to `HttpClient`, the `detail` will contain
the following properties: `req`, `res`. And the `req` property will be an
[<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) containing `method`,
`url`, `headers`, the `res` property will be an
[<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) containing
`statusCode`, `statusMessage`, `headers`.

If `performanceEntry.name` is equal to `HttpRequest`, the `detail` will
contain the following properties: `req`, `res`. And the `req` property will be
an [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) containing `method`,
`url`, `headers`, the `res` property will be an
[<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) containing
`statusCode`, `statusMessage`, `headers`.

This could add additional memory overhead and should only be used for
diagnostic purposes, not left turned on in production by default.

#### HTTP/2 ('http2') Details#

When `performanceEntry.type` is equal to `'http2'`, the
`performanceNodeEntry.detail` property will be an
[<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) containing additional
performance information.

If `performanceEntry.name` is equal to `Http2Stream`, the `detail` will
contain the following properties:

  * `bytesRead` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of `DATA` frame bytes received for this `Http2Stream`.
  * `bytesWritten` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of `DATA` frame bytes sent for this `Http2Stream`.
  * `id` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The identifier of the associated `Http2Stream`
  * `timeToFirstByte` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds elapsed between the `PerformanceEntry` `startTime` and the reception of the first `DATA` frame.
  * `timeToFirstByteSent` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds elapsed between the `PerformanceEntry` `startTime` and sending of the first `DATA` frame.
  * `timeToFirstHeader` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds elapsed between the `PerformanceEntry` `startTime` and the reception of the first header.

If `performanceEntry.name` is equal to `Http2Session`, the `detail` will
contain the following properties:

  * `bytesRead` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes received for this `Http2Session`.
  * `bytesWritten` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bytes sent for this `Http2Session`.
  * `framesReceived` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of HTTP/2 frames received by the `Http2Session`.
  * `framesSent` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of HTTP/2 frames sent by the `Http2Session`.
  * `maxConcurrentStreams` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The maximum number of streams concurrently open during the lifetime of the `Http2Session`.
  * `pingRTT` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds elapsed since the transmission of a `PING` frame and the reception of its acknowledgment. Only present if a `PING` frame has been sent on the `Http2Session`.
  * `streamAverageDuration` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The average duration (in milliseconds) for all `Http2Stream` instances.
  * `streamCount` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of `Http2Stream` instances processed by the `Http2Session`.
  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Either `'server'` or `'client'` to identify the type of `Http2Session`.

#### Timerify ('function') Details#

When `performanceEntry.type` is equal to `'function'`, the
`performanceNodeEntry.detail` property will be an
[<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) listing the input
arguments to the timed function.

#### Net ('net') Details#

When `performanceEntry.type` is equal to `'net'`, the
`performanceNodeEntry.detail` property will be an
[<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) containing additional
information.

If `performanceEntry.name` is equal to `connect`, the `detail` will contain
the following properties: `host`, `port`.

#### DNS ('dns') Details#

When `performanceEntry.type` is equal to `'dns'`, the
`performanceNodeEntry.detail` property will be an
[<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) containing additional
information.

If `performanceEntry.name` is equal to `lookup`, the `detail` will contain the
following properties: `hostname`, `family`, `hints`, `verbatim`, `addresses`.

If `performanceEntry.name` is equal to `lookupService`, the `detail` will
contain the following properties: `host`, `port`, `hostname`, `service`.

If `performanceEntry.name` is equal to `queryxxx` or `getHostByAddr`, the
`detail` will contain the following properties: `host`, `ttl`, `result`. The
value of `result` is same as the result of `queryxxx` or `getHostByAddr`.

### Class: `PerformanceNodeTiming`#

Added in: v8.5.0

  * Extends: <PerformanceEntry>

_This property is an extension by Node.js. It is not available in Web
browsers._

Provides timing details for Node.js itself. The constructor of this class is
not exposed to users.

#### `performanceNodeTiming.bootstrapComplete`#

Added in: v8.5.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which the Node.js process
completed bootstrapping. If bootstrapping has not yet finished, the property
has the value of -1.

#### `performanceNodeTiming.environment`#

Added in: v8.5.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which the Node.js environment was
initialized.

#### `performanceNodeTiming.idleTime`#

Added in: v14.10.0, v12.19.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp of the amount of time the event loop
has been idle within the event loop's event provider (e.g. `epoll_wait`). This
does not take CPU usage into consideration. If the event loop has not yet
started (e.g., in the first tick of the main script), the property has the
value of 0.

#### `performanceNodeTiming.loopExit`#

Added in: v8.5.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which the Node.js event loop
exited. If the event loop has not yet exited, the property has the value of
-1. It can only have a value of not -1 in a handler of the `'exit'` event.

#### `performanceNodeTiming.loopStart`#

Added in: v8.5.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which the Node.js event loop
started. If the event loop has not yet started (e.g., in the first tick of the
main script), the property has the value of -1.

#### `performanceNodeTiming.nodeStart`#

Added in: v8.5.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which the Node.js process was
initialized.

#### `performanceNodeTiming.uvMetricsInfo`#

Added in: v22.8.0, v20.18.0

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `loopCount` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of event loop iterations.
    * `events` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of events that have been processed by the event handler.
    * `eventsWaiting` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of events that were waiting to be processed when the event provider was called.

This is a wrapper to the `uv_metrics_info` function. It returns the current
set of event loop metrics.

It is recommended to use this property inside a function whose execution was
scheduled using `setImmediate` to avoid collecting metrics before finishing
all operations scheduled during the current loop iteration.

    
    
    const { performance } = require('node:perf_hooks');
    
    setImmediate(() => {
      console.log(performance.nodeTiming.uvMetricsInfo);
    });import { performance } from 'node:perf_hooks';
    
    setImmediate(() => {
      console.log(performance.nodeTiming.uvMetricsInfo);
    });copy

#### `performanceNodeTiming.v8Start`#

Added in: v8.5.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at which the V8 platform was
initialized.

### Class: `PerformanceResourceTiming`#

Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0

  * Extends: <PerformanceEntry>

Provides detailed network timing data regarding the loading of an
application's resources.

The constructor of this class is not exposed to users directly.

#### `performanceResourceTiming.workerStart`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceResourceTiming` object as the receiver.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp at immediately before dispatching
the `fetch` request. If the resource is not intercepted by a worker the
property will always return 0.

#### `performanceResourceTiming.redirectStart`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceResourceTiming` object as the receiver.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp that represents the start time of
the fetch which initiates the redirect.

#### `performanceResourceTiming.redirectEnd`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceResourceTiming` object as the receiver.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp that will be created immediately
after receiving the last byte of the response of the last redirect.

#### `performanceResourceTiming.fetchStart`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceResourceTiming` object as the receiver.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp immediately before the Node.js
starts to fetch the resource.

#### `performanceResourceTiming.domainLookupStart`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceResourceTiming` object as the receiver.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp immediately before the Node.js
starts the domain name lookup for the resource.

#### `performanceResourceTiming.domainLookupEnd`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceResourceTiming` object as the receiver.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp representing the time immediately
after the Node.js finished the domain name lookup for the resource.

#### `performanceResourceTiming.connectStart`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceResourceTiming` object as the receiver.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp representing the time immediately
before Node.js starts to establish the connection to the server to retrieve
the resource.

#### `performanceResourceTiming.connectEnd`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceResourceTiming` object as the receiver.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp representing the time immediately
after Node.js finishes establishing the connection to the server to retrieve
the resource.

#### `performanceResourceTiming.secureConnectionStart`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceResourceTiming` object as the receiver.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp representing the time immediately
before Node.js starts the handshake process to secure the current connection.

#### `performanceResourceTiming.requestStart`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceResourceTiming` object as the receiver.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp representing the time immediately
before Node.js receives the first byte of the response from the server.

#### `performanceResourceTiming.responseEnd`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceResourceTiming` object as the receiver.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The high resolution millisecond timestamp representing the time immediately
after Node.js receives the last byte of the resource or immediately before the
transport connection is closed, whichever comes first.

#### `performanceResourceTiming.transferSize`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceResourceTiming` object as the receiver.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

A number representing the size (in octets) of the fetched resource. The size
includes the response header fields plus the response payload body.

#### `performanceResourceTiming.encodedBodySize`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceResourceTiming` object as the receiver.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

A number representing the size (in octets) received from the fetch (HTTP or
cache), of the payload body, before removing any applied content-codings.

#### `performanceResourceTiming.decodedBodySize`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This property getter must be called with the `PerformanceResourceTiming` object as the receiver.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

A number representing the size (in octets) received from the fetch (HTTP or
cache), of the message body, after removing any applied content-codings.

#### `performanceResourceTiming.toJSON()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | This method must be called with the `PerformanceResourceTiming` object as the receiver.  
v18.2.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.2.0, v16.17.0  
  
Returns a `object` that is the JSON representation of the
`PerformanceResourceTiming` object

### Class: `PerformanceObserver`#

Added in: v8.5.0

#### `PerformanceObserver.supportedEntryTypes`#

Added in: v16.0.0

  * [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Get supported types.

#### `new PerformanceObserver(callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v8.5.0 | Added in: v8.5.0  
  
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `list` <PerformanceObserverEntryList>
    * `observer` <PerformanceObserver>

`PerformanceObserver` objects provide notifications when new
`PerformanceEntry` instances have been added to the Performance Timeline.

    
    
    import { performance, PerformanceObserver } from 'node:perf_hooks';
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list, observer) => {
      console.log(list.getEntries());
    
      performance.clearMarks();
      performance.clearMeasures();
      observer.disconnect();
    });
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['mark'], buffered: true });
    
    performance.mark('test');const {
      performance,
      PerformanceObserver,
    } = require('node:perf_hooks');
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list, observer) => {
      console.log(list.getEntries());
    
      performance.clearMarks();
      performance.clearMeasures();
      observer.disconnect();
    });
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['mark'], buffered: true });
    
    performance.mark('test');copy

Because `PerformanceObserver` instances introduce their own additional
performance overhead, instances should not be left subscribed to notifications
indefinitely. Users should disconnect observers as soon as they are no longer
needed.

The `callback` is invoked when a `PerformanceObserver` is notified about new
`PerformanceEntry` instances. The callback receives a
`PerformanceObserverEntryList` instance and a reference to the
`PerformanceObserver`.

#### `performanceObserver.disconnect()`#

Added in: v8.5.0

Disconnects the `PerformanceObserver` instance from all notifications.

#### `performanceObserver.observe(options)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.7.0 | Updated to conform to Performance Timeline Level 2. The buffered option has been added back.  
v16.0.0 | Updated to conform to User Timing Level 3. The buffered option has been removed.  
v8.5.0 | Added in: v8.5.0  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A single <PerformanceEntry> type. Must not be given if `entryTypes` is already specified.
    * `entryTypes` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) An array of strings identifying the types of <PerformanceEntry> instances the observer is interested in. If not provided an error will be thrown.
    * `buffered` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If true, the observer callback is called with a list global `PerformanceEntry` buffered entries. If false, only `PerformanceEntry`s created after the time point are sent to the observer callback. **Default:** `false`.

Subscribes the <PerformanceObserver> instance to notifications of new
<PerformanceEntry> instances identified either by `options.entryTypes` or
`options.type`:

    
    
    import { performance, PerformanceObserver } from 'node:perf_hooks';
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list, observer) => {
      // Called once asynchronously. `list` contains three items.
    });
    obs.observe({ type: 'mark' });
    
    for (let n = 0; n < 3; n++)
      performance.mark(`test${n}`);const {
      performance,
      PerformanceObserver,
    } = require('node:perf_hooks');
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list, observer) => {
      // Called once asynchronously. `list` contains three items.
    });
    obs.observe({ type: 'mark' });
    
    for (let n = 0; n < 3; n++)
      performance.mark(`test${n}`);copy

#### `performanceObserver.takeRecords()`#

Added in: v16.0.0

  * Returns: <PerformanceEntry[]> Current list of entries stored in the performance observer, emptying it out.

### Class: `PerformanceObserverEntryList`#

Added in: v8.5.0

The `PerformanceObserverEntryList` class is used to provide access to the
`PerformanceEntry` instances passed to a `PerformanceObserver`. The
constructor of this class is not exposed to users.

#### `performanceObserverEntryList.getEntries()`#

Added in: v8.5.0

  * Returns: <PerformanceEntry[]>

Returns a list of `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order with
respect to `performanceEntry.startTime`.

    
    
    import { performance, PerformanceObserver } from 'node:perf_hooks';
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((perfObserverList, observer) => {
      console.log(perfObserverList.getEntries());
      /**
       * [
       *   PerformanceEntry {
       *     name: 'test',
       *     entryType: 'mark',
       *     startTime: 81.465639,
       *     duration: 0,
       *     detail: null
       *   },
       *   PerformanceEntry {
       *     name: 'meow',
       *     entryType: 'mark',
       *     startTime: 81.860064,
       *     duration: 0,
       *     detail: null
       *   }
       * ]
       */
    
      performance.clearMarks();
      performance.clearMeasures();
      observer.disconnect();
    });
    obs.observe({ type: 'mark' });
    
    performance.mark('test');
    performance.mark('meow');const {
      performance,
      PerformanceObserver,
    } = require('node:perf_hooks');
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((perfObserverList, observer) => {
      console.log(perfObserverList.getEntries());
      /**
       * [
       *   PerformanceEntry {
       *     name: 'test',
       *     entryType: 'mark',
       *     startTime: 81.465639,
       *     duration: 0,
       *     detail: null
       *   },
       *   PerformanceEntry {
       *     name: 'meow',
       *     entryType: 'mark',
       *     startTime: 81.860064,
       *     duration: 0,
       *     detail: null
       *   }
       * ]
       */
    
      performance.clearMarks();
      performance.clearMeasures();
      observer.disconnect();
    });
    obs.observe({ type: 'mark' });
    
    performance.mark('test');
    performance.mark('meow');copy

#### `performanceObserverEntryList.getEntriesByName(name[, type])`#

Added in: v8.5.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: <PerformanceEntry[]>

Returns a list of `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order with
respect to `performanceEntry.startTime` whose `performanceEntry.name` is equal
to `name`, and optionally, whose `performanceEntry.entryType` is equal to
`type`.

    
    
    import { performance, PerformanceObserver } from 'node:perf_hooks';
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((perfObserverList, observer) => {
      console.log(perfObserverList.getEntriesByName('meow'));
      /**
       * [
       *   PerformanceEntry {
       *     name: 'meow',
       *     entryType: 'mark',
       *     startTime: 98.545991,
       *     duration: 0,
       *     detail: null
       *   }
       * ]
       */
      console.log(perfObserverList.getEntriesByName('nope')); // []
    
      console.log(perfObserverList.getEntriesByName('test', 'mark'));
      /**
       * [
       *   PerformanceEntry {
       *     name: 'test',
       *     entryType: 'mark',
       *     startTime: 63.518931,
       *     duration: 0,
       *     detail: null
       *   }
       * ]
       */
      console.log(perfObserverList.getEntriesByName('test', 'measure')); // []
    
      performance.clearMarks();
      performance.clearMeasures();
      observer.disconnect();
    });
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['mark', 'measure'] });
    
    performance.mark('test');
    performance.mark('meow');const {
      performance,
      PerformanceObserver,
    } = require('node:perf_hooks');
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((perfObserverList, observer) => {
      console.log(perfObserverList.getEntriesByName('meow'));
      /**
       * [
       *   PerformanceEntry {
       *     name: 'meow',
       *     entryType: 'mark',
       *     startTime: 98.545991,
       *     duration: 0,
       *     detail: null
       *   }
       * ]
       */
      console.log(perfObserverList.getEntriesByName('nope')); // []
    
      console.log(perfObserverList.getEntriesByName('test', 'mark'));
      /**
       * [
       *   PerformanceEntry {
       *     name: 'test',
       *     entryType: 'mark',
       *     startTime: 63.518931,
       *     duration: 0,
       *     detail: null
       *   }
       * ]
       */
      console.log(perfObserverList.getEntriesByName('test', 'measure')); // []
    
      performance.clearMarks();
      performance.clearMeasures();
      observer.disconnect();
    });
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['mark', 'measure'] });
    
    performance.mark('test');
    performance.mark('meow');copy

#### `performanceObserverEntryList.getEntriesByType(type)`#

Added in: v8.5.0

  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: <PerformanceEntry[]>

Returns a list of `PerformanceEntry` objects in chronological order with
respect to `performanceEntry.startTime` whose `performanceEntry.entryType` is
equal to `type`.

    
    
    import { performance, PerformanceObserver } from 'node:perf_hooks';
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((perfObserverList, observer) => {
      console.log(perfObserverList.getEntriesByType('mark'));
      /**
       * [
       *   PerformanceEntry {
       *     name: 'test',
       *     entryType: 'mark',
       *     startTime: 55.897834,
       *     duration: 0,
       *     detail: null
       *   },
       *   PerformanceEntry {
       *     name: 'meow',
       *     entryType: 'mark',
       *     startTime: 56.350146,
       *     duration: 0,
       *     detail: null
       *   }
       * ]
       */
      performance.clearMarks();
      performance.clearMeasures();
      observer.disconnect();
    });
    obs.observe({ type: 'mark' });
    
    performance.mark('test');
    performance.mark('meow');const {
      performance,
      PerformanceObserver,
    } = require('node:perf_hooks');
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((perfObserverList, observer) => {
      console.log(perfObserverList.getEntriesByType('mark'));
      /**
       * [
       *   PerformanceEntry {
       *     name: 'test',
       *     entryType: 'mark',
       *     startTime: 55.897834,
       *     duration: 0,
       *     detail: null
       *   },
       *   PerformanceEntry {
       *     name: 'meow',
       *     entryType: 'mark',
       *     startTime: 56.350146,
       *     duration: 0,
       *     detail: null
       *   }
       * ]
       */
      performance.clearMarks();
      performance.clearMeasures();
      observer.disconnect();
    });
    obs.observe({ type: 'mark' });
    
    performance.mark('test');
    performance.mark('meow');copy

### `perf_hooks.createHistogram([options])`#

Added in: v15.9.0, v14.18.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `lowest` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) The lowest discernible value. Must be an integer value greater than 0. **Default:** `1`.
    * `highest` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) The highest recordable value. Must be an integer value that is equal to or greater than two times `lowest`. **Default:** `Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER`.
    * `figures` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of accuracy digits. Must be a number between `1` and `5`. **Default:** `3`.
  * Returns: <RecordableHistogram>

Returns a <RecordableHistogram>.

### `perf_hooks.monitorEventLoopDelay([options])`#

Added in: v11.10.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `resolution` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The sampling rate in milliseconds. Must be greater than zero. **Default:** `10`.
  * Returns: <IntervalHistogram>

_This property is an extension by Node.js. It is not available in Web
browsers._

Creates an `IntervalHistogram` object that samples and reports the event loop
delay over time. The delays will be reported in nanoseconds.

Using a timer to detect approximate event loop delay works because the
execution of timers is tied specifically to the lifecycle of the libuv event
loop. That is, a delay in the loop will cause a delay in the execution of the
timer, and those delays are specifically what this API is intended to detect.

    
    
    import { monitorEventLoopDelay } from 'node:perf_hooks';
    
    const h = monitorEventLoopDelay({ resolution: 20 });
    h.enable();
    // Do something.
    h.disable();
    console.log(h.min);
    console.log(h.max);
    console.log(h.mean);
    console.log(h.stddev);
    console.log(h.percentiles);
    console.log(h.percentile(50));
    console.log(h.percentile(99));const { monitorEventLoopDelay } = require('node:perf_hooks');
    const h = monitorEventLoopDelay({ resolution: 20 });
    h.enable();
    // Do something.
    h.disable();
    console.log(h.min);
    console.log(h.max);
    console.log(h.mean);
    console.log(h.stddev);
    console.log(h.percentiles);
    console.log(h.percentile(50));
    console.log(h.percentile(99));copy

### Class: `Histogram`#

Added in: v11.10.0

#### `histogram.count`#

Added in: v17.4.0, v16.14.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The number of samples recorded by the histogram.

#### `histogram.countBigInt`#

Added in: v17.4.0, v16.14.0

  * [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

The number of samples recorded by the histogram.

#### `histogram.exceeds`#

Added in: v11.10.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The number of times the event loop delay exceeded the maximum 1 hour event
loop delay threshold.

#### `histogram.exceedsBigInt`#

Added in: v17.4.0, v16.14.0

  * [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

The number of times the event loop delay exceeded the maximum 1 hour event
loop delay threshold.

#### `histogram.max`#

Added in: v11.10.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The maximum recorded event loop delay.

#### `histogram.maxBigInt`#

Added in: v17.4.0, v16.14.0

  * [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

The maximum recorded event loop delay.

#### `histogram.mean`#

Added in: v11.10.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The mean of the recorded event loop delays.

#### `histogram.min`#

Added in: v11.10.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The minimum recorded event loop delay.

#### `histogram.minBigInt`#

Added in: v17.4.0, v16.14.0

  * [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

The minimum recorded event loop delay.

#### `histogram.percentile(percentile)`#

Added in: v11.10.0

  * `percentile` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A percentile value in the range (0, 100].
  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the value at the given percentile.

#### `histogram.percentileBigInt(percentile)`#

Added in: v17.4.0, v16.14.0

  * `percentile` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A percentile value in the range (0, 100].
  * Returns: [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

Returns the value at the given percentile.

#### `histogram.percentiles`#

Added in: v11.10.0

  * [<Map>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map)

Returns a `Map` object detailing the accumulated percentile distribution.

#### `histogram.percentilesBigInt`#

Added in: v17.4.0, v16.14.0

  * [<Map>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map)

Returns a `Map` object detailing the accumulated percentile distribution.

#### `histogram.reset()`#

Added in: v11.10.0

Resets the collected histogram data.

#### `histogram.stddev`#

Added in: v11.10.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The standard deviation of the recorded event loop delays.

### Class: `IntervalHistogram extends Histogram`#

A `Histogram` that is periodically updated on a given interval.

#### `histogram.disable()`#

Added in: v11.10.0

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Disables the update interval timer. Returns `true` if the timer was stopped,
`false` if it was already stopped.

#### `histogram.enable()`#

Added in: v11.10.0

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Enables the update interval timer. Returns `true` if the timer was started,
`false` if it was already started.

#### Cloning an `IntervalHistogram`#

<IntervalHistogram> instances can be cloned via <MessagePort>. On the
receiving end, the histogram is cloned as a plain <Histogram> object that does
not implement the `enable()` and `disable()` methods.

### Class: `RecordableHistogram extends Histogram`#

Added in: v15.9.0, v14.18.0

#### `histogram.add(other)`#

Added in: v17.4.0, v16.14.0

  * `other` <RecordableHistogram>

Adds the values from `other` to this histogram.

#### `histogram.record(val)`#

Added in: v15.9.0, v14.18.0

  * `val` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) The amount to record in the histogram.

#### `histogram.recordDelta()`#

Added in: v15.9.0, v14.18.0

Calculates the amount of time (in nanoseconds) that has passed since the
previous call to `recordDelta()` and records that amount in the histogram.

### Examples#

#### Measuring the duration of async operations#

The following example uses the [Async Hooks](async_hooks.html) and Performance
APIs to measure the actual duration of a Timeout operation (including the
amount of time it took to execute the callback).

    
    
    import { createHook } from 'node:async_hooks';
    import { performance, PerformanceObserver } from 'node:perf_hooks';
    
    const set = new Set();
    const hook = createHook({
      init(id, type) {
        if (type === 'Timeout') {
          performance.mark(`Timeout-${id}-Init`);
          set.add(id);
        }
      },
      destroy(id) {
        if (set.has(id)) {
          set.delete(id);
          performance.mark(`Timeout-${id}-Destroy`);
          performance.measure(`Timeout-${id}`,
                              `Timeout-${id}-Init`,
                              `Timeout-${id}-Destroy`);
        }
      },
    });
    hook.enable();
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list, observer) => {
      console.log(list.getEntries()[0]);
      performance.clearMarks();
      performance.clearMeasures();
      observer.disconnect();
    });
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['measure'], buffered: true });
    
    setTimeout(() => {}, 1000);'use strict';
    const async_hooks = require('node:async_hooks');
    const {
      performance,
      PerformanceObserver,
    } = require('node:perf_hooks');
    
    const set = new Set();
    const hook = async_hooks.createHook({
      init(id, type) {
        if (type === 'Timeout') {
          performance.mark(`Timeout-${id}-Init`);
          set.add(id);
        }
      },
      destroy(id) {
        if (set.has(id)) {
          set.delete(id);
          performance.mark(`Timeout-${id}-Destroy`);
          performance.measure(`Timeout-${id}`,
                              `Timeout-${id}-Init`,
                              `Timeout-${id}-Destroy`);
        }
      },
    });
    hook.enable();
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list, observer) => {
      console.log(list.getEntries()[0]);
      performance.clearMarks();
      performance.clearMeasures();
      observer.disconnect();
    });
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['measure'] });
    
    setTimeout(() => {}, 1000);copy

#### Measuring how long it takes to load dependencies#

The following example measures the duration of `require()` operations to load
dependencies:

    
    
    import { performance, PerformanceObserver } from 'node:perf_hooks';
    
    // Activate the observer
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list) => {
      const entries = list.getEntries();
      entries.forEach((entry) => {
        console.log(`import('${entry[0]}')`, entry.duration);
      });
      performance.clearMarks();
      performance.clearMeasures();
      obs.disconnect();
    });
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['function'], buffered: true });
    
    const timedImport = performance.timerify(async (module) => {
      return await import(module);
    });
    
    await timedImport('some-module');'use strict';
    const {
      performance,
      PerformanceObserver,
    } = require('node:perf_hooks');
    const mod = require('node:module');
    
    // Monkey patch the require function
    mod.Module.prototype.require =
      performance.timerify(mod.Module.prototype.require);
    require = performance.timerify(require);
    
    // Activate the observer
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((list) => {
      const entries = list.getEntries();
      entries.forEach((entry) => {
        console.log(`require('${entry[0]}')`, entry.duration);
      });
      performance.clearMarks();
      performance.clearMeasures();
      obs.disconnect();
    });
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['function'] });
    
    require('some-module');copy

#### Measuring how long one HTTP round-trip takes#

The following example is used to trace the time spent by HTTP client
(`OutgoingMessage`) and HTTP request (`IncomingMessage`). For HTTP client, it
means the time interval between starting the request and receiving the
response, and for HTTP request, it means the time interval between receiving
the request and sending the response:

    
    
    import { PerformanceObserver } from 'node:perf_hooks';
    import { createServer, get } from 'node:http';
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((items) => {
      items.getEntries().forEach((item) => {
        console.log(item);
      });
    });
    
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['http'] });
    
    const PORT = 8080;
    
    createServer((req, res) => {
      res.end('ok');
    }).listen(PORT, () => {
      get(`http://127.0.0.1:${PORT}`);
    });'use strict';
    const { PerformanceObserver } = require('node:perf_hooks');
    const http = require('node:http');
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((items) => {
      items.getEntries().forEach((item) => {
        console.log(item);
      });
    });
    
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['http'] });
    
    const PORT = 8080;
    
    http.createServer((req, res) => {
      res.end('ok');
    }).listen(PORT, () => {
      http.get(`http://127.0.0.1:${PORT}`);
    });copy

#### Measuring how long the `net.connect` (only for TCP) takes when the
connection is successful#

    
    
    import { PerformanceObserver } from 'node:perf_hooks';
    import { connect, createServer } from 'node:net';
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((items) => {
      items.getEntries().forEach((item) => {
        console.log(item);
      });
    });
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['net'] });
    const PORT = 8080;
    createServer((socket) => {
      socket.destroy();
    }).listen(PORT, () => {
      connect(PORT);
    });'use strict';
    const { PerformanceObserver } = require('node:perf_hooks');
    const net = require('node:net');
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((items) => {
      items.getEntries().forEach((item) => {
        console.log(item);
      });
    });
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['net'] });
    const PORT = 8080;
    net.createServer((socket) => {
      socket.destroy();
    }).listen(PORT, () => {
      net.connect(PORT);
    });copy

#### Measuring how long the DNS takes when the request is successful#

    
    
    import { PerformanceObserver } from 'node:perf_hooks';
    import { lookup, promises } from 'node:dns';
    
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((items) => {
      items.getEntries().forEach((item) => {
        console.log(item);
      });
    });
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['dns'] });
    lookup('localhost', () => {});
    promises.resolve('localhost');'use strict';
    const { PerformanceObserver } = require('node:perf_hooks');
    const dns = require('node:dns');
    const obs = new PerformanceObserver((items) => {
      items.getEntries().forEach((item) => {
        console.log(item);
      });
    });
    obs.observe({ entryTypes: ['dns'] });
    dns.lookup('localhost', () => {});
    dns.promises.resolve('localhost');copy

## Permissions#

**Source Code:**
[src/permission.cc](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/src/permission.cc)

Permissions can be used to control what system resources the Node.js process
has access to or what actions the process can take with those resources.

  * Process-based permissions control the Node.js process's access to resources. The resource can be entirely allowed or denied, or actions related to it can be controlled. For example, file system reads can be allowed while denying writes. This feature does not protect against malicious code. According to the Node.js [Security Policy](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/main/SECURITY.md), Node.js trusts any code it is asked to run.

The permission model implements a "seat belt" approach, which prevents trusted
code from unintentionally changing files or using resources that access has
not explicitly been granted to. It does not provide security guarantees in the
presence of malicious code. Malicious code can bypass the permission model and
execute arbitrary code without the restrictions imposed by the permission
model.

If you find a potential security vulnerability, please refer to our [Security
Policy](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/main/SECURITY.md).

### Process-based permissions#

#### Permission Model#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.5.0 | This feature is no longer experimental.  
v20.0.0 | Added in: v20.0.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable.

The Node.js Permission Model is a mechanism for restricting access to specific
resources during execution. The API exists behind a flag `--permission` which
when enabled, will restrict access to all available permissions.

The available permissions are documented by the `--permission` flag.

When starting Node.js with `--permission`, the ability to access the file
system through the `fs` module, spawn processes, use `node:worker_threads`,
use native addons, use WASI, and enable the runtime inspector will be
restricted.

    
    
    $ node --permission index.js
    
    Error: Access to this API has been restricted
        at node:internal/main/run_main_module:23:47 {
      code: 'ERR_ACCESS_DENIED',
      permission: 'FileSystemRead',
      resource: '/home/user/index.js'
    } copy

Allowing access to spawning a process and creating worker threads can be done
using the `--allow-child-process` and `--allow-worker` respectively.

To allow native addons when using permission model, use the `--allow-addons`
flag. For WASI, use the `--allow-wasi` flag.

##### Runtime API#

When enabling the Permission Model through the `--permission` flag a new
property `permission` is added to the `process` object. This property contains
one function:

###### `permission.has(scope[, reference])`#

API call to check permissions at runtime (`permission.has()`)

    
    
    process.permission.has('fs.write'); // true
    process.permission.has('fs.write', '/home/rafaelgss/protected-folder'); // true
    
    process.permission.has('fs.read'); // true
    process.permission.has('fs.read', '/home/rafaelgss/protected-folder'); // false copy

##### File System Permissions#

The Permission Model, by default, restricts access to the file system through
the `node:fs` module. It does not guarantee that users will not be able to
access the file system through other means, such as through the `node:sqlite`
module.

To allow access to the file system, use the `--allow-fs-read` and `--allow-fs-
write` flags:

    
    
    $ node --permission --allow-fs-read=* --allow-fs-write=* index.js
    Hello world! copy

The valid arguments for both flags are:

  * `*` \- To allow all `FileSystemRead` or `FileSystemWrite` operations, respectively.
  * Paths delimited by comma (`,`) to allow only matching `FileSystemRead` or `FileSystemWrite` operations, respectively.

Example:

  * `--allow-fs-read=*` \- It will allow all `FileSystemRead` operations.
  * `--allow-fs-write=*` \- It will allow all `FileSystemWrite` operations.
  * `--allow-fs-write=/tmp/` \- It will allow `FileSystemWrite` access to the `/tmp/` folder.
  * `--allow-fs-read=/tmp/ --allow-fs-read=/home/.gitignore` \- It allows `FileSystemRead` access to the `/tmp/` folder **and** the `/home/.gitignore` path.

Wildcards are supported too:

  * `--allow-fs-read=/home/test*` will allow read access to everything that matches the wildcard. e.g: `/home/test/file1` or `/home/test2`

After passing a wildcard character (`*`) all subsequent characters will be
ignored. For example: `/home/*.js` will work similar to `/home/*`.

When the permission model is initialized, it will automatically add a wildcard
(*) if the specified directory exists. For example, if `/home/test/files`
exists, it will be treated as `/home/test/files/*`. However, if the directory
does not exist, the wildcard will not be added, and access will be limited to
`/home/test/files`. If you want to allow access to a folder that does not
exist yet, make sure to explicitly include the wildcard: `/my-path/folder-do-
not-exist/*`.

##### Using the Permission Model with `npx`#

If you're using [`npx`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/commands/npx) to execute a
Node.js script, you can enable the Permission Model by passing the `--node-
options` flag. For example:

    
    
    npx --node-options="--permission" package-name copy

This sets the `NODE_OPTIONS` environment variable for all Node.js processes
spawned by [`npx`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/commands/npx), without affecting
the `npx` process itself.

**FileSystemRead Error with`npx`**

The above command will likely throw a `FileSystemRead` invalid access error
because Node.js requires file system read access to locate and execute the
package. To avoid this:

  1. **Using a Globally Installed Package** Grant read access to the global `node_modules` directory by running:
    
        npx --node-options="--permission --allow-fs-read=$(npm prefix -g)" package-name copy

  2. **Using the`npx` Cache** If you are installing the package temporarily or relying on the `npx` cache, grant read access to the npm cache directory:
    
        npx --node-options="--permission --allow-fs-read=$(npm config get cache)" package-name copy

Any arguments you would normally pass to `node` (e.g., `--allow-*` flags) can
also be passed through the `--node-options` flag. This flexibility makes it
easy to configure permissions as needed when using `npx`.

##### Permission Model constraints#

There are constraints you need to know before using this system:

  * The model does not inherit to a child node process or a worker thread.
  * When using the Permission Model the following features will be restricted: 
    * Native modules
    * Child process
    * Worker Threads
    * Inspector protocol
    * File system access
    * WASI
  * The Permission Model is initialized after the Node.js environment is set up. However, certain flags such as `--env-file` or `--openssl-config` are designed to read files before environment initialization. As a result, such flags are not subject to the rules of the Permission Model. The same applies for V8 flags that can be set via runtime through `v8.setFlagsFromString`.
  * OpenSSL engines cannot be requested at runtime when the Permission Model is enabled, affecting the built-in crypto, https, and tls modules.
  * Run-Time Loadable Extensions cannot be loaded when the Permission Model is enabled, affecting the sqlite module.
  * Using existing file descriptors via the `node:fs` module bypasses the Permission Model.

##### Limitations and Known Issues#

  * Symbolic links will be followed even to locations outside of the set of paths that access has been granted to. Relative symbolic links may allow access to arbitrary files and directories. When starting applications with the permission model enabled, you must ensure that no paths to which access has been granted contain relative symbolic links.

## Process#

**Source Code:**
[lib/process.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/process.js)

The `process` object provides information about, and control over, the current
Node.js process.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';const process = require('node:process');copy

### Process events#

The `process` object is an instance of `EventEmitter`.

#### Event: `'beforeExit'`#

Added in: v0.11.12

The `'beforeExit'` event is emitted when Node.js empties its event loop and
has no additional work to schedule. Normally, the Node.js process will exit
when there is no work scheduled, but a listener registered on the
`'beforeExit'` event can make asynchronous calls, and thereby cause the
Node.js process to continue.

The listener callback function is invoked with the value of `process.exitCode`
passed as the only argument.

The `'beforeExit'` event is _not_ emitted for conditions causing explicit
termination, such as calling `process.exit()` or uncaught exceptions.

The `'beforeExit'` should _not_ be used as an alternative to the `'exit'`
event unless the intention is to schedule additional work.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    process.on('beforeExit', (code) => {
      console.log('Process beforeExit event with code: ', code);
    });
    
    process.on('exit', (code) => {
      console.log('Process exit event with code: ', code);
    });
    
    console.log('This message is displayed first.');
    
    // Prints:
    // This message is displayed first.
    // Process beforeExit event with code: 0
    // Process exit event with code: 0const process = require('node:process');
    
    process.on('beforeExit', (code) => {
      console.log('Process beforeExit event with code: ', code);
    });
    
    process.on('exit', (code) => {
      console.log('Process exit event with code: ', code);
    });
    
    console.log('This message is displayed first.');
    
    // Prints:
    // This message is displayed first.
    // Process beforeExit event with code: 0
    // Process exit event with code: 0copy

#### Event: `'disconnect'`#

Added in: v0.7.7

If the Node.js process is spawned with an IPC channel (see the [Child
Process](child_process.html) and [Cluster](cluster.html) documentation), the
`'disconnect'` event will be emitted when the IPC channel is closed.

#### Event: `'exit'`#

Added in: v0.1.7

  * `code` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `'exit'` event is emitted when the Node.js process is about to exit as a
result of either:

  * The `process.exit()` method being called explicitly;
  * The Node.js event loop no longer having any additional work to perform.

There is no way to prevent the exiting of the event loop at this point, and
once all `'exit'` listeners have finished running the Node.js process will
terminate.

The listener callback function is invoked with the exit code specified either
by the `process.exitCode` property, or the `exitCode` argument passed to the
`process.exit()` method.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    process.on('exit', (code) => {
      console.log(`About to exit with code: ${code}`);
    });const process = require('node:process');
    
    process.on('exit', (code) => {
      console.log(`About to exit with code: ${code}`);
    });copy

Listener functions **must** only perform **synchronous** operations. The
Node.js process will exit immediately after calling the `'exit'` event
listeners causing any additional work still queued in the event loop to be
abandoned. In the following example, for instance, the timeout will never
occur:

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    process.on('exit', (code) => {
      setTimeout(() => {
        console.log('This will not run');
      }, 0);
    });const process = require('node:process');
    
    process.on('exit', (code) => {
      setTimeout(() => {
        console.log('This will not run');
      }, 0);
    });copy

#### Event: `'message'`#

Added in: v0.5.10

  * `message` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) a parsed JSON object or a serializable primitive value.
  * `sendHandle` <net.Server> | <net.Socket> a `net.Server` or `net.Socket` object, or undefined.

If the Node.js process is spawned with an IPC channel (see the [Child
Process](child_process.html) and [Cluster](cluster.html) documentation), the
`'message'` event is emitted whenever a message sent by a parent process using
`childprocess.send()` is received by the child process.

The message goes through serialization and parsing. The resulting message
might not be the same as what is originally sent.

If the `serialization` option was set to `advanced` used when spawning the
process, the `message` argument can contain data that JSON is not able to
represent. See Advanced serialization for `child_process` for more details.

#### Event: `'multipleResolves'`#

Added in: v10.12.0Deprecated since: v17.6.0, v16.15.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated

  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The resolution type. One of `'resolve'` or `'reject'`.
  * `promise` [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) The promise that resolved or rejected more than once.
  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The value with which the promise was either resolved or rejected after the original resolve.

The `'multipleResolves'` event is emitted whenever a `Promise` has been
either:

  * Resolved more than once.
  * Rejected more than once.
  * Rejected after resolve.
  * Resolved after reject.

This is useful for tracking potential errors in an application while using the
`Promise` constructor, as multiple resolutions are silently swallowed.
However, the occurrence of this event does not necessarily indicate an error.
For example, [`Promise.race()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/race) can trigger a
`'multipleResolves'` event.

Because of the unreliability of the event in cases like the
[`Promise.race()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/race) example above it
has been deprecated.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    process.on('multipleResolves', (type, promise, reason) => {
      console.error(type, promise, reason);
      setImmediate(() => process.exit(1));
    });
    
    async function main() {
      try {
        return await new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
          resolve('First call');
          resolve('Swallowed resolve');
          reject(new Error('Swallowed reject'));
        });
      } catch {
        throw new Error('Failed');
      }
    }
    
    main().then(console.log);
    // resolve: Promise { 'First call' } 'Swallowed resolve'
    // reject: Promise { 'First call' } Error: Swallowed reject
    //     at Promise (*)
    //     at new Promise (<anonymous>)
    //     at main (*)
    // First callconst process = require('node:process');
    
    process.on('multipleResolves', (type, promise, reason) => {
      console.error(type, promise, reason);
      setImmediate(() => process.exit(1));
    });
    
    async function main() {
      try {
        return await new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
          resolve('First call');
          resolve('Swallowed resolve');
          reject(new Error('Swallowed reject'));
        });
      } catch {
        throw new Error('Failed');
      }
    }
    
    main().then(console.log);
    // resolve: Promise { 'First call' } 'Swallowed resolve'
    // reject: Promise { 'First call' } Error: Swallowed reject
    //     at Promise (*)
    //     at new Promise (<anonymous>)
    //     at main (*)
    // First callcopy

#### Event: `'rejectionHandled'`#

Added in: v1.4.1

  * `promise` [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) The late handled promise.

The `'rejectionHandled'` event is emitted whenever a `Promise` has been
rejected and an error handler was attached to it (using
[`promise.catch()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/catch), for example)
later than one turn of the Node.js event loop.

The `Promise` object would have previously been emitted in an
`'unhandledRejection'` event, but during the course of processing gained a
rejection handler.

There is no notion of a top level for a `Promise` chain at which rejections
can always be handled. Being inherently asynchronous in nature, a `Promise`
rejection can be handled at a future point in time, possibly much later than
the event loop turn it takes for the `'unhandledRejection'` event to be
emitted.

Another way of stating this is that, unlike in synchronous code where there is
an ever-growing list of unhandled exceptions, with Promises there can be a
growing-and-shrinking list of unhandled rejections.

In synchronous code, the `'uncaughtException'` event is emitted when the list
of unhandled exceptions grows.

In asynchronous code, the `'unhandledRejection'` event is emitted when the
list of unhandled rejections grows, and the `'rejectionHandled'` event is
emitted when the list of unhandled rejections shrinks.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    const unhandledRejections = new Map();
    process.on('unhandledRejection', (reason, promise) => {
      unhandledRejections.set(promise, reason);
    });
    process.on('rejectionHandled', (promise) => {
      unhandledRejections.delete(promise);
    });const process = require('node:process');
    
    const unhandledRejections = new Map();
    process.on('unhandledRejection', (reason, promise) => {
      unhandledRejections.set(promise, reason);
    });
    process.on('rejectionHandled', (promise) => {
      unhandledRejections.delete(promise);
    });copy

In this example, the `unhandledRejections` `Map` will grow and shrink over
time, reflecting rejections that start unhandled and then become handled. It
is possible to record such errors in an error log, either periodically (which
is likely best for long-running application) or upon process exit (which is
likely most convenient for scripts).

#### Event: `'workerMessage'`#

Added in: v22.5.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) A value transmitted using `postMessageToThread()`.
  * `source` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The transmitting worker thread ID or `0` for the main thread.

The `'workerMessage'` event is emitted for any incoming message send by the
other party by using `postMessageToThread()`.

#### Event: `'uncaughtException'`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.0.0, v10.17.0 | Added the `origin` argument.  
v0.1.18 | Added in: v0.1.18  
  
  * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) The uncaught exception.
  * `origin` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Indicates if the exception originates from an unhandled rejection or from a synchronous error. Can either be `'uncaughtException'` or `'unhandledRejection'`. The latter is used when an exception happens in a `Promise` based async context (or if a `Promise` is rejected) and `--unhandled-rejections` flag set to `strict` or `throw` (which is the default) and the rejection is not handled, or when a rejection happens during the command line entry point's ES module static loading phase.

The `'uncaughtException'` event is emitted when an uncaught JavaScript
exception bubbles all the way back to the event loop. By default, Node.js
handles such exceptions by printing the stack trace to `stderr` and exiting
with code 1, overriding any previously set `process.exitCode`. Adding a
handler for the `'uncaughtException'` event overrides this default behavior.
Alternatively, change the `process.exitCode` in the `'uncaughtException'`
handler which will result in the process exiting with the provided exit code.
Otherwise, in the presence of such handler the process will exit with 0.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    import fs from 'node:fs';
    
    process.on('uncaughtException', (err, origin) => {
      fs.writeSync(
        process.stderr.fd,
        `Caught exception: ${err}\n` +
        `Exception origin: ${origin}\n`,
      );
    });
    
    setTimeout(() => {
      console.log('This will still run.');
    }, 500);
    
    // Intentionally cause an exception, but don't catch it.
    nonexistentFunc();
    console.log('This will not run.');const process = require('node:process');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    process.on('uncaughtException', (err, origin) => {
      fs.writeSync(
        process.stderr.fd,
        `Caught exception: ${err}\n` +
        `Exception origin: ${origin}\n`,
      );
    });
    
    setTimeout(() => {
      console.log('This will still run.');
    }, 500);
    
    // Intentionally cause an exception, but don't catch it.
    nonexistentFunc();
    console.log('This will not run.');copy

It is possible to monitor `'uncaughtException'` events without overriding the
default behavior to exit the process by installing a
`'uncaughtExceptionMonitor'` listener.

##### Warning: Using `'uncaughtException'` correctly#

`'uncaughtException'` is a crude mechanism for exception handling intended to
be used only as a last resort. The event _should not_ be used as an equivalent
to `On Error Resume Next`. Unhandled exceptions inherently mean that an
application is in an undefined state. Attempting to resume application code
without properly recovering from the exception can cause additional unforeseen
and unpredictable issues.

Exceptions thrown from within the event handler will not be caught. Instead
the process will exit with a non-zero exit code and the stack trace will be
printed. This is to avoid infinite recursion.

Attempting to resume normally after an uncaught exception can be similar to
pulling out the power cord when upgrading a computer. Nine out of ten times,
nothing happens. But the tenth time, the system becomes corrupted.

The correct use of `'uncaughtException'` is to perform synchronous cleanup of
allocated resources (e.g. file descriptors, handles, etc) before shutting down
the process. **It is not safe to resume normal operation
after`'uncaughtException'`.**

To restart a crashed application in a more reliable way, whether
`'uncaughtException'` is emitted or not, an external monitor should be
employed in a separate process to detect application failures and recover or
restart as needed.

#### Event: `'uncaughtExceptionMonitor'`#

Added in: v13.7.0, v12.17.0

  * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) The uncaught exception.
  * `origin` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Indicates if the exception originates from an unhandled rejection or from synchronous errors. Can either be `'uncaughtException'` or `'unhandledRejection'`. The latter is used when an exception happens in a `Promise` based async context (or if a `Promise` is rejected) and `--unhandled-rejections` flag set to `strict` or `throw` (which is the default) and the rejection is not handled, or when a rejection happens during the command line entry point's ES module static loading phase.

The `'uncaughtExceptionMonitor'` event is emitted before an
`'uncaughtException'` event is emitted or a hook installed via
`process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback()` is called.

Installing an `'uncaughtExceptionMonitor'` listener does not change the
behavior once an `'uncaughtException'` event is emitted. The process will
still crash if no `'uncaughtException'` listener is installed.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    process.on('uncaughtExceptionMonitor', (err, origin) => {
      MyMonitoringTool.logSync(err, origin);
    });
    
    // Intentionally cause an exception, but don't catch it.
    nonexistentFunc();
    // Still crashes Node.jsconst process = require('node:process');
    
    process.on('uncaughtExceptionMonitor', (err, origin) => {
      MyMonitoringTool.logSync(err, origin);
    });
    
    // Intentionally cause an exception, but don't catch it.
    nonexistentFunc();
    // Still crashes Node.jscopy

#### Event: `'unhandledRejection'`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v7.0.0 | Not handling `Promise` rejections is deprecated.  
v6.6.0 | Unhandled `Promise` rejections will now emit a process warning.  
v1.4.1 | Added in: v1.4.1  
  
  * `reason` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) | [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The object with which the promise was rejected (typically an `Error` object).
  * `promise` [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) The rejected promise.

The `'unhandledRejection'` event is emitted whenever a `Promise` is rejected
and no error handler is attached to the promise within a turn of the event
loop. When programming with Promises, exceptions are encapsulated as "rejected
promises". Rejections can be caught and handled using
[`promise.catch()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/catch) and are
propagated through a `Promise` chain. The `'unhandledRejection'` event is
useful for detecting and keeping track of promises that were rejected whose
rejections have not yet been handled.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    process.on('unhandledRejection', (reason, promise) => {
      console.log('Unhandled Rejection at:', promise, 'reason:', reason);
      // Application specific logging, throwing an error, or other logic here
    });
    
    somePromise.then((res) => {
      return reportToUser(JSON.pasre(res)); // Note the typo (`pasre`)
    }); // No `.catch()` or `.then()`const process = require('node:process');
    
    process.on('unhandledRejection', (reason, promise) => {
      console.log('Unhandled Rejection at:', promise, 'reason:', reason);
      // Application specific logging, throwing an error, or other logic here
    });
    
    somePromise.then((res) => {
      return reportToUser(JSON.pasre(res)); // Note the typo (`pasre`)
    }); // No `.catch()` or `.then()`copy

The following will also trigger the `'unhandledRejection'` event to be
emitted:

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    function SomeResource() {
      // Initially set the loaded status to a rejected promise
      this.loaded = Promise.reject(new Error('Resource not yet loaded!'));
    }
    
    const resource = new SomeResource();
    // no .catch or .then on resource.loaded for at least a turnconst process = require('node:process');
    
    function SomeResource() {
      // Initially set the loaded status to a rejected promise
      this.loaded = Promise.reject(new Error('Resource not yet loaded!'));
    }
    
    const resource = new SomeResource();
    // no .catch or .then on resource.loaded for at least a turncopy

In this example case, it is possible to track the rejection as a developer
error as would typically be the case for other `'unhandledRejection'` events.
To address such failures, a non-operational [`.catch(() => {
})`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/catch) handler may be
attached to `resource.loaded`, which would prevent the `'unhandledRejection'`
event from being emitted.

#### Event: `'warning'`#

Added in: v6.0.0

  * `warning` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) Key properties of the warning are: 
    * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The name of the warning. **Default:** `'Warning'`.
    * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A system-provided description of the warning.
    * `stack` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A stack trace to the location in the code where the warning was issued.

The `'warning'` event is emitted whenever Node.js emits a process warning.

A process warning is similar to an error in that it describes exceptional
conditions that are being brought to the user's attention. However, warnings
are not part of the normal Node.js and JavaScript error handling flow. Node.js
can emit warnings whenever it detects bad coding practices that could lead to
sub-optimal application performance, bugs, or security vulnerabilities.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    process.on('warning', (warning) => {
      console.warn(warning.name);    // Print the warning name
      console.warn(warning.message); // Print the warning message
      console.warn(warning.stack);   // Print the stack trace
    });const process = require('node:process');
    
    process.on('warning', (warning) => {
      console.warn(warning.name);    // Print the warning name
      console.warn(warning.message); // Print the warning message
      console.warn(warning.stack);   // Print the stack trace
    });copy

By default, Node.js will print process warnings to `stderr`. The `--no-
warnings` command-line option can be used to suppress the default console
output but the `'warning'` event will still be emitted by the `process`
object. Currently, it is not possible to suppress specific warning types other
than deprecation warnings. To suppress deprecation warnings, check out the
`--no-deprecation` flag.

The following example illustrates the warning that is printed to `stderr` when
too many listeners have been added to an event:

    
    
    $ node
    > events.defaultMaxListeners = 1;
    > process.on('foo', () => {});
    > process.on('foo', () => {});
    > (node:38638) MaxListenersExceededWarning: Possible EventEmitter memory leak
    detected. 2 foo listeners added. Use emitter.setMaxListeners() to increase limit copy

In contrast, the following example turns off the default warning output and
adds a custom handler to the `'warning'` event:

    
    
    $ node --no-warnings
    > const p = process.on('warning', (warning) => console.warn('Do not do that!'));
    > events.defaultMaxListeners = 1;
    > process.on('foo', () => {});
    > process.on('foo', () => {});
    > Do not do that! copy

The `--trace-warnings` command-line option can be used to have the default
console output for warnings include the full stack trace of the warning.

Launching Node.js using the `--throw-deprecation` command-line flag will cause
custom deprecation warnings to be thrown as exceptions.

Using the `--trace-deprecation` command-line flag will cause the custom
deprecation to be printed to `stderr` along with the stack trace.

Using the `--no-deprecation` command-line flag will suppress all reporting of
the custom deprecation.

The `*-deprecation` command-line flags only affect warnings that use the name
`'DeprecationWarning'`.

##### Emitting custom warnings#

See the `process.emitWarning()` method for issuing custom or application-
specific warnings.

##### Node.js warning names#

There are no strict guidelines for warning types (as identified by the `name`
property) emitted by Node.js. New types of warnings can be added at any time.
A few of the warning types that are most common include:

  * `'DeprecationWarning'` \- Indicates use of a deprecated Node.js API or feature. Such warnings must include a `'code'` property identifying the [deprecation code](deprecations.html).
  * `'ExperimentalWarning'` \- Indicates use of an experimental Node.js API or feature. Such features must be used with caution as they may change at any time and are not subject to the same strict semantic-versioning and long-term support policies as supported features.
  * `'MaxListenersExceededWarning'` \- Indicates that too many listeners for a given event have been registered on either an `EventEmitter` or `EventTarget`. This is often an indication of a memory leak.
  * `'TimeoutOverflowWarning'` \- Indicates that a numeric value that cannot fit within a 32-bit signed integer has been provided to either the `setTimeout()` or `setInterval()` functions.
  * `'TimeoutNegativeWarning'` \- Indicates that a negative number has provided to either the `setTimeout()` or `setInterval()` functions.
  * `'TimeoutNaNWarning'` \- Indicates that a value which is not a number has provided to either the `setTimeout()` or `setInterval()` functions.
  * `'UnsupportedWarning'` \- Indicates use of an unsupported option or feature that will be ignored rather than treated as an error. One example is use of the HTTP response status message when using the HTTP/2 compatibility API.

#### Event: `'worker'`#

Added in: v16.2.0, v14.18.0

  * `worker` <Worker> The <Worker> that was created.

The `'worker'` event is emitted after a new <Worker> thread has been created.

#### Signal events#

Signal events will be emitted when the Node.js process receives a signal.
Please refer to [`signal(7)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man7/signal.7.html) for a listing of standard POSIX signal names such as
`'SIGINT'`, `'SIGHUP'`, etc.

Signals are not available on `Worker` threads.

The signal handler will receive the signal's name (`'SIGINT'`, `'SIGTERM'`,
etc.) as the first argument.

The name of each event will be the uppercase common name for the signal (e.g.
`'SIGINT'` for `SIGINT` signals).

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    // Begin reading from stdin so the process does not exit.
    process.stdin.resume();
    
    process.on('SIGINT', () => {
      console.log('Received SIGINT. Press Control-D to exit.');
    });
    
    // Using a single function to handle multiple signals
    function handle(signal) {
      console.log(`Received ${signal}`);
    }
    
    process.on('SIGINT', handle);
    process.on('SIGTERM', handle);const process = require('node:process');
    
    // Begin reading from stdin so the process does not exit.
    process.stdin.resume();
    
    process.on('SIGINT', () => {
      console.log('Received SIGINT. Press Control-D to exit.');
    });
    
    // Using a single function to handle multiple signals
    function handle(signal) {
      console.log(`Received ${signal}`);
    }
    
    process.on('SIGINT', handle);
    process.on('SIGTERM', handle);copy

  * `'SIGUSR1'` is reserved by Node.js to start the [debugger](debugger.html). It's possible to install a listener but doing so might interfere with the debugger.
  * `'SIGTERM'` and `'SIGINT'` have default handlers on non-Windows platforms that reset the terminal mode before exiting with code `128 + signal number`. If one of these signals has a listener installed, its default behavior will be removed (Node.js will no longer exit).
  * `'SIGPIPE'` is ignored by default. It can have a listener installed.
  * `'SIGHUP'` is generated on Windows when the console window is closed, and on other platforms under various similar conditions. See [`signal(7)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/signal.7.html). It can have a listener installed, however Node.js will be unconditionally terminated by Windows about 10 seconds later. On non-Windows platforms, the default behavior of `SIGHUP` is to terminate Node.js, but once a listener has been installed its default behavior will be removed.
  * `'SIGTERM'` is not supported on Windows, it can be listened on.
  * `'SIGINT'` from the terminal is supported on all platforms, and can usually be generated with `Ctrl`+`C` (though this may be configurable). It is not generated when terminal raw mode is enabled and `Ctrl`+`C` is used.
  * `'SIGBREAK'` is delivered on Windows when `Ctrl`+`Break` is pressed. On non-Windows platforms, it can be listened on, but there is no way to send or generate it.
  * `'SIGWINCH'` is delivered when the console has been resized. On Windows, this will only happen on write to the console when the cursor is being moved, or when a readable tty is used in raw mode.
  * `'SIGKILL'` cannot have a listener installed, it will unconditionally terminate Node.js on all platforms.
  * `'SIGSTOP'` cannot have a listener installed.
  * `'SIGBUS'`, `'SIGFPE'`, `'SIGSEGV'`, and `'SIGILL'`, when not raised artificially using [`kill(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/kill.2.html), inherently leave the process in a state from which it is not safe to call JS listeners. Doing so might cause the process to stop responding.
  * `0` can be sent to test for the existence of a process, it has no effect if the process exists, but will throw an error if the process does not exist.

Windows does not support signals so has no equivalent to termination by
signal, but Node.js offers some emulation with `process.kill()`, and
`subprocess.kill()`:

  * Sending `SIGINT`, `SIGTERM`, and `SIGKILL` will cause the unconditional termination of the target process, and afterwards, subprocess will report that the process was terminated by signal.
  * Sending signal `0` can be used as a platform independent way to test for the existence of a process.

### `process.abort()`#

Added in: v0.7.0

The `process.abort()` method causes the Node.js process to exit immediately
and generate a core file.

This feature is not available in `Worker` threads.

### `process.allowedNodeEnvironmentFlags`#

Added in: v10.10.0

  * [<Set>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set)

The `process.allowedNodeEnvironmentFlags` property is a special, read-only
`Set` of flags allowable within the `NODE_OPTIONS` environment variable.

`process.allowedNodeEnvironmentFlags` extends `Set`, but overrides
`Set.prototype.has` to recognize several different possible flag
representations. `process.allowedNodeEnvironmentFlags.has()` will return
`true` in the following cases:

  * Flags may omit leading single (`-`) or double (`--`) dashes; e.g., `inspect-brk` for `--inspect-brk`, or `r` for `-r`.
  * Flags passed through to V8 (as listed in `--v8-options`) may replace one or more _non-leading_ dashes for an underscore, or vice-versa; e.g., `--perf_basic_prof`, `--perf-basic-prof`, `--perf_basic-prof`, etc.
  * Flags may contain one or more equals (`=`) characters; all characters after and including the first equals will be ignored; e.g., `--stack-trace-limit=100`.
  * Flags _must_ be allowable within `NODE_OPTIONS`.

When iterating over `process.allowedNodeEnvironmentFlags`, flags will appear
only _once_ ; each will begin with one or more dashes. Flags passed through to
V8 will contain underscores instead of non-leading dashes:

    
    
    import { allowedNodeEnvironmentFlags } from 'node:process';
    
    allowedNodeEnvironmentFlags.forEach((flag) => {
      // -r
      // --inspect-brk
      // --abort_on_uncaught_exception
      // ...
    });const { allowedNodeEnvironmentFlags } = require('node:process');
    
    allowedNodeEnvironmentFlags.forEach((flag) => {
      // -r
      // --inspect-brk
      // --abort_on_uncaught_exception
      // ...
    });copy

The methods `add()`, `clear()`, and `delete()` of
`process.allowedNodeEnvironmentFlags` do nothing, and will fail silently.

If Node.js was compiled _without_ `NODE_OPTIONS` support (shown in
`process.config`), `process.allowedNodeEnvironmentFlags` will contain what
_would have_ been allowable.

### `process.arch`#

Added in: v0.5.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The operating system CPU architecture for which the Node.js binary was
compiled. Possible values are: `'arm'`, `'arm64'`, `'ia32'`, `'loong64'`,
`'mips'`, `'mipsel'`, `'ppc'`, `'ppc64'`, `'riscv64'`, `'s390'`, `'s390x'`,
and `'x64'`.

    
    
    import { arch } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(`This processor architecture is ${arch}`);const { arch } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(`This processor architecture is ${arch}`);copy

### `process.argv`#

Added in: v0.1.27

  * [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `process.argv` property returns an array containing the command-line
arguments passed when the Node.js process was launched. The first element will
be `process.execPath`. See `process.argv0` if access to the original value of
`argv[0]` is needed. The second element will be the path to the JavaScript
file being executed. The remaining elements will be any additional command-
line arguments.

For example, assuming the following script for `process-args.js`:

    
    
    import { argv } from 'node:process';
    
    // print process.argv
    argv.forEach((val, index) => {
      console.log(`${index}: ${val}`);
    });const { argv } = require('node:process');
    
    // print process.argv
    argv.forEach((val, index) => {
      console.log(`${index}: ${val}`);
    });copy

Launching the Node.js process as:

    
    
    node process-args.js one two=three four copy

Would generate the output:

    
    
    0: /usr/local/bin/node
    1: /Users/mjr/work/node/process-args.js
    2: one
    3: two=three
    4: four copy

### `process.argv0`#

Added in: v6.4.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `process.argv0` property stores a read-only copy of the original value of
`argv[0]` passed when Node.js starts.

    
    
    $ bash -c 'exec -a customArgv0 ./node'
    > process.argv[0]
    '/Volumes/code/external/node/out/Release/node'
    > process.argv0
    'customArgv0' copy

### `process.channel`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | The object no longer accidentally exposes native C++ bindings.  
v7.1.0 | Added in: v7.1.0  
  
  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

If the Node.js process was spawned with an IPC channel (see the [Child
Process](child_process.html) documentation), the `process.channel` property is
a reference to the IPC channel. If no IPC channel exists, this property is
`undefined`.

#### `process.channel.ref()`#

Added in: v7.1.0

This method makes the IPC channel keep the event loop of the process running
if `.unref()` has been called before.

Typically, this is managed through the number of `'disconnect'` and
`'message'` listeners on the `process` object. However, this method can be
used to explicitly request a specific behavior.

#### `process.channel.unref()`#

Added in: v7.1.0

This method makes the IPC channel not keep the event loop of the process
running, and lets it finish even while the channel is open.

Typically, this is managed through the number of `'disconnect'` and
`'message'` listeners on the `process` object. However, this method can be
used to explicitly request a specific behavior.

### `process.chdir(directory)`#

Added in: v0.1.17

  * `directory` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `process.chdir()` method changes the current working directory of the
Node.js process or throws an exception if doing so fails (for instance, if the
specified `directory` does not exist).

    
    
    import { chdir, cwd } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(`Starting directory: ${cwd()}`);
    try {
      chdir('/tmp');
      console.log(`New directory: ${cwd()}`);
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(`chdir: ${err}`);
    }const { chdir, cwd } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(`Starting directory: ${cwd()}`);
    try {
      chdir('/tmp');
      console.log(`New directory: ${cwd()}`);
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(`chdir: ${err}`);
    }copy

This feature is not available in `Worker` threads.

### `process.config`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0 | The `process.config` object is now frozen.  
v16.0.0 | Modifying process.config has been deprecated.  
v0.7.7 | Added in: v0.7.7  
  
  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The `process.config` property returns a frozen `Object` containing the
JavaScript representation of the configure options used to compile the current
Node.js executable. This is the same as the `config.gypi` file that was
produced when running the `./configure` script.

An example of the possible output looks like:

    
    
    {
      target_defaults:
       { cflags: [],
         default_configuration: 'Release',
         defines: [],
         include_dirs: [],
         libraries: [] },
      variables:
       {
         host_arch: 'x64',
         napi_build_version: 5,
         node_install_npm: 'true',
         node_prefix: '',
         node_shared_cares: 'false',
         node_shared_http_parser: 'false',
         node_shared_libuv: 'false',
         node_shared_zlib: 'false',
         node_use_openssl: 'true',
         node_shared_openssl: 'false',
         target_arch: 'x64',
         v8_use_snapshot: 1
       }
    } copy

### `process.connected`#

Added in: v0.7.2

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

If the Node.js process is spawned with an IPC channel (see the [Child
Process](child_process.html) and [Cluster](cluster.html) documentation), the
`process.connected` property will return `true` so long as the IPC channel is
connected and will return `false` after `process.disconnect()` is called.

Once `process.connected` is `false`, it is no longer possible to send messages
over the IPC channel using `process.send()`.

### `process.constrainedMemory()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0, v20.13.0 | Aligned return value with `uv_get_constrained_memory`.  
v19.6.0, v18.15.0 | Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0  
  
Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Gets the amount of memory available to the process (in bytes) based on limits
imposed by the OS. If there is no such constraint, or the constraint is
unknown, `0` is returned.

See
[`uv_get_constrained_memory`](https://docs.libuv.org/en/v1.x/misc.html#c.uv_get_constrained_memory)
for more information.

### `process.availableMemory()`#

Added in: v22.0.0, v20.13.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Gets the amount of free memory that is still available to the process (in
bytes).

See
[`uv_get_available_memory`](https://docs.libuv.org/en/v1.x/misc.html#c.uv_get_available_memory)
for more information.

### `process.cpuUsage([previousValue])`#

Added in: v6.1.0

  * `previousValue` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) A previous return value from calling `process.cpuUsage()`
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `user` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `system` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `process.cpuUsage()` method returns the user and system CPU time usage of
the current process, in an object with properties `user` and `system`, whose
values are microsecond values (millionth of a second). These values measure
time spent in user and system code respectively, and may end up being greater
than actual elapsed time if multiple CPU cores are performing work for this
process.

The result of a previous call to `process.cpuUsage()` can be passed as the
argument to the function, to get a diff reading.

    
    
    import { cpuUsage } from 'node:process';
    
    const startUsage = cpuUsage();
    // { user: 38579, system: 6986 }
    
    // spin the CPU for 500 milliseconds
    const now = Date.now();
    while (Date.now() - now < 500);
    
    console.log(cpuUsage(startUsage));
    // { user: 514883, system: 11226 }const { cpuUsage } = require('node:process');
    
    const startUsage = cpuUsage();
    // { user: 38579, system: 6986 }
    
    // spin the CPU for 500 milliseconds
    const now = Date.now();
    while (Date.now() - now < 500);
    
    console.log(cpuUsage(startUsage));
    // { user: 514883, system: 11226 }copy

### `process.cwd()`#

Added in: v0.1.8

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `process.cwd()` method returns the current working directory of the
Node.js process.

    
    
    import { cwd } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(`Current directory: ${cwd()}`);const { cwd } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(`Current directory: ${cwd()}`);copy

### `process.debugPort`#

Added in: v0.7.2

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The port used by the Node.js debugger when enabled.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    process.debugPort = 5858;const process = require('node:process');
    
    process.debugPort = 5858;copy

### `process.disconnect()`#

Added in: v0.7.2

If the Node.js process is spawned with an IPC channel (see the [Child
Process](child_process.html) and [Cluster](cluster.html) documentation), the
`process.disconnect()` method will close the IPC channel to the parent
process, allowing the child process to exit gracefully once there are no other
connections keeping it alive.

The effect of calling `process.disconnect()` is the same as calling
`ChildProcess.disconnect()` from the parent process.

If the Node.js process was not spawned with an IPC channel,
`process.disconnect()` will be `undefined`.

### `process.dlopen(module, filename[, flags])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.0.0 | Added support for the `flags` argument.  
v0.1.16 | Added in: v0.1.16  
  
  * `module` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * `filename` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `flags` <os.constants.dlopen> **Default:** `os.constants.dlopen.RTLD_LAZY`

The `process.dlopen()` method allows dynamically loading shared objects. It is
primarily used by `require()` to load C++ Addons, and should not be used
directly, except in special cases. In other words, `require()` should be
preferred over `process.dlopen()` unless there are specific reasons such as
custom dlopen flags or loading from ES modules.

The `flags` argument is an integer that allows to specify dlopen behavior. See
the `os.constants.dlopen` documentation for details.

An important requirement when calling `process.dlopen()` is that the `module`
instance must be passed. Functions exported by the C++ Addon are then
accessible via `module.exports`.

The example below shows how to load a C++ Addon, named `local.node`, that
exports a `foo` function. All the symbols are loaded before the call returns,
by passing the `RTLD_NOW` constant. In this example the constant is assumed to
be available.

    
    
    import { dlopen } from 'node:process';
    import { constants } from 'node:os';
    import { fileURLToPath } from 'node:url';
    
    const module = { exports: {} };
    dlopen(module, fileURLToPath(new URL('local.node', import.meta.url)),
           constants.dlopen.RTLD_NOW);
    module.exports.foo();const { dlopen } = require('node:process');
    const { constants } = require('node:os');
    const { join } = require('node:path');
    
    const module = { exports: {} };
    dlopen(module, join(__dirname, 'local.node'), constants.dlopen.RTLD_NOW);
    module.exports.foo();copy

### `process.emitWarning(warning[, options])`#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * `warning` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) The warning to emit.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) When `warning` is a `String`, `type` is the name to use for the _type_ of warning being emitted. **Default:** `'Warning'`.
    * `code` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A unique identifier for the warning instance being emitted.
    * `ctor` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) When `warning` is a `String`, `ctor` is an optional function used to limit the generated stack trace. **Default:** `process.emitWarning`.
    * `detail` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Additional text to include with the error.

The `process.emitWarning()` method can be used to emit custom or application
specific process warnings. These can be listened for by adding a handler to
the `'warning'` event.

    
    
    import { emitWarning } from 'node:process';
    
    // Emit a warning with a code and additional detail.
    emitWarning('Something happened!', {
      code: 'MY_WARNING',
      detail: 'This is some additional information',
    });
    // Emits:
    // (node:56338) [MY_WARNING] Warning: Something happened!
    // This is some additional informationconst { emitWarning } = require('node:process');
    
    // Emit a warning with a code and additional detail.
    emitWarning('Something happened!', {
      code: 'MY_WARNING',
      detail: 'This is some additional information',
    });
    // Emits:
    // (node:56338) [MY_WARNING] Warning: Something happened!
    // This is some additional informationcopy

In this example, an `Error` object is generated internally by
`process.emitWarning()` and passed through to the `'warning'` handler.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    process.on('warning', (warning) => {
      console.warn(warning.name);    // 'Warning'
      console.warn(warning.message); // 'Something happened!'
      console.warn(warning.code);    // 'MY_WARNING'
      console.warn(warning.stack);   // Stack trace
      console.warn(warning.detail);  // 'This is some additional information'
    });const process = require('node:process');
    
    process.on('warning', (warning) => {
      console.warn(warning.name);    // 'Warning'
      console.warn(warning.message); // 'Something happened!'
      console.warn(warning.code);    // 'MY_WARNING'
      console.warn(warning.stack);   // Stack trace
      console.warn(warning.detail);  // 'This is some additional information'
    });copy

If `warning` is passed as an `Error` object, the `options` argument is
ignored.

### `process.emitWarning(warning[, type[, code]][, ctor])`#

Added in: v6.0.0

  * `warning` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) The warning to emit.
  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) When `warning` is a `String`, `type` is the name to use for the _type_ of warning being emitted. **Default:** `'Warning'`.
  * `code` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A unique identifier for the warning instance being emitted.
  * `ctor` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) When `warning` is a `String`, `ctor` is an optional function used to limit the generated stack trace. **Default:** `process.emitWarning`.

The `process.emitWarning()` method can be used to emit custom or application
specific process warnings. These can be listened for by adding a handler to
the `'warning'` event.

    
    
    import { emitWarning } from 'node:process';
    
    // Emit a warning using a string.
    emitWarning('Something happened!');
    // Emits: (node: 56338) Warning: Something happened!const { emitWarning } = require('node:process');
    
    // Emit a warning using a string.
    emitWarning('Something happened!');
    // Emits: (node: 56338) Warning: Something happened!copy
    
    
    import { emitWarning } from 'node:process';
    
    // Emit a warning using a string and a type.
    emitWarning('Something Happened!', 'CustomWarning');
    // Emits: (node:56338) CustomWarning: Something Happened!const { emitWarning } = require('node:process');
    
    // Emit a warning using a string and a type.
    emitWarning('Something Happened!', 'CustomWarning');
    // Emits: (node:56338) CustomWarning: Something Happened!copy
    
    
    import { emitWarning } from 'node:process';
    
    emitWarning('Something happened!', 'CustomWarning', 'WARN001');
    // Emits: (node:56338) [WARN001] CustomWarning: Something happened!const { emitWarning } = require('node:process');
    
    process.emitWarning('Something happened!', 'CustomWarning', 'WARN001');
    // Emits: (node:56338) [WARN001] CustomWarning: Something happened!copy

In each of the previous examples, an `Error` object is generated internally by
`process.emitWarning()` and passed through to the `'warning'` handler.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    process.on('warning', (warning) => {
      console.warn(warning.name);
      console.warn(warning.message);
      console.warn(warning.code);
      console.warn(warning.stack);
    });const process = require('node:process');
    
    process.on('warning', (warning) => {
      console.warn(warning.name);
      console.warn(warning.message);
      console.warn(warning.code);
      console.warn(warning.stack);
    });copy

If `warning` is passed as an `Error` object, it will be passed through to the
`'warning'` event handler unmodified (and the optional `type`, `code` and
`ctor` arguments will be ignored):

    
    
    import { emitWarning } from 'node:process';
    
    // Emit a warning using an Error object.
    const myWarning = new Error('Something happened!');
    // Use the Error name property to specify the type name
    myWarning.name = 'CustomWarning';
    myWarning.code = 'WARN001';
    
    emitWarning(myWarning);
    // Emits: (node:56338) [WARN001] CustomWarning: Something happened!const { emitWarning } = require('node:process');
    
    // Emit a warning using an Error object.
    const myWarning = new Error('Something happened!');
    // Use the Error name property to specify the type name
    myWarning.name = 'CustomWarning';
    myWarning.code = 'WARN001';
    
    emitWarning(myWarning);
    // Emits: (node:56338) [WARN001] CustomWarning: Something happened!copy

A `TypeError` is thrown if `warning` is anything other than a string or
`Error` object.

While process warnings use `Error` objects, the process warning mechanism is
**not** a replacement for normal error handling mechanisms.

The following additional handling is implemented if the warning `type` is
`'DeprecationWarning'`:

  * If the `--throw-deprecation` command-line flag is used, the deprecation warning is thrown as an exception rather than being emitted as an event.
  * If the `--no-deprecation` command-line flag is used, the deprecation warning is suppressed.
  * If the `--trace-deprecation` command-line flag is used, the deprecation warning is printed to `stderr` along with the full stack trace.

#### Avoiding duplicate warnings#

As a best practice, warnings should be emitted only once per process. To do
so, place the `emitWarning()` behind a boolean.

    
    
    import { emitWarning } from 'node:process';
    
    function emitMyWarning() {
      if (!emitMyWarning.warned) {
        emitMyWarning.warned = true;
        emitWarning('Only warn once!');
      }
    }
    emitMyWarning();
    // Emits: (node: 56339) Warning: Only warn once!
    emitMyWarning();
    // Emits nothingconst { emitWarning } = require('node:process');
    
    function emitMyWarning() {
      if (!emitMyWarning.warned) {
        emitMyWarning.warned = true;
        emitWarning('Only warn once!');
      }
    }
    emitMyWarning();
    // Emits: (node: 56339) Warning: Only warn once!
    emitMyWarning();
    // Emits nothingcopy

### `process.env`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.14.0 | Worker threads will now use a copy of the parent thread's `process.env` by default, configurable through the `env` option of the `Worker` constructor.  
v10.0.0 | Implicit conversion of variable value to string is deprecated.  
v0.1.27 | Added in: v0.1.27  
  
  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The `process.env` property returns an object containing the user environment.
See [`environ(7)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/environ.7.html).

An example of this object looks like:

    
    
    {
      TERM: 'xterm-256color',
      SHELL: '/usr/local/bin/bash',
      USER: 'maciej',
      PATH: '~/.bin/:/usr/bin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/sbin:/usr/local/bin',
      PWD: '/Users/maciej',
      EDITOR: 'vim',
      SHLVL: '1',
      HOME: '/Users/maciej',
      LOGNAME: 'maciej',
      _: '/usr/local/bin/node'
    } copy

It is possible to modify this object, but such modifications will not be
reflected outside the Node.js process, or (unless explicitly requested) to
other `Worker` threads. In other words, the following example would not work:

    
    
    node -e 'process.env.foo = "bar"' && echo $foo copy

While the following will:

    
    
    import { env } from 'node:process';
    
    env.foo = 'bar';
    console.log(env.foo);const { env } = require('node:process');
    
    env.foo = 'bar';
    console.log(env.foo);copy

Assigning a property on `process.env` will implicitly convert the value to a
string. **This behavior is deprecated.** Future versions of Node.js may throw
an error when the value is not a string, number, or boolean.

    
    
    import { env } from 'node:process';
    
    env.test = null;
    console.log(env.test);
    // => 'null'
    env.test = undefined;
    console.log(env.test);
    // => 'undefined'const { env } = require('node:process');
    
    env.test = null;
    console.log(env.test);
    // => 'null'
    env.test = undefined;
    console.log(env.test);
    // => 'undefined'copy

Use `delete` to delete a property from `process.env`.

    
    
    import { env } from 'node:process';
    
    env.TEST = 1;
    delete env.TEST;
    console.log(env.TEST);
    // => undefinedconst { env } = require('node:process');
    
    env.TEST = 1;
    delete env.TEST;
    console.log(env.TEST);
    // => undefinedcopy

On Windows operating systems, environment variables are case-insensitive.

    
    
    import { env } from 'node:process';
    
    env.TEST = 1;
    console.log(env.test);
    // => 1const { env } = require('node:process');
    
    env.TEST = 1;
    console.log(env.test);
    // => 1copy

Unless explicitly specified when creating a `Worker` instance, each `Worker`
thread has its own copy of `process.env`, based on its parent thread's
`process.env`, or whatever was specified as the `env` option to the `Worker`
constructor. Changes to `process.env` will not be visible across `Worker`
threads, and only the main thread can make changes that are visible to the
operating system or to native add-ons. On Windows, a copy of `process.env` on
a `Worker` instance operates in a case-sensitive manner unlike the main
thread.

### `process.execArgv`#

Added in: v0.7.7

  * [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `process.execArgv` property returns the set of Node.js-specific command-
line options passed when the Node.js process was launched. These options do
not appear in the array returned by the `process.argv` property, and do not
include the Node.js executable, the name of the script, or any options
following the script name. These options are useful in order to spawn child
processes with the same execution environment as the parent.

    
    
    node --icu-data-dir=./foo --require ./bar.js script.js --version copy

Results in `process.execArgv`:

    
    
    ["--icu-data-dir=./foo", "--require", "./bar.js"] copy

And `process.argv`:

    
    
    ['/usr/local/bin/node', 'script.js', '--version'] copy

Refer to `Worker` constructor for the detailed behavior of worker threads with
this property.

### `process.execPath`#

Added in: v0.1.100

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `process.execPath` property returns the absolute pathname of the
executable that started the Node.js process. Symbolic links, if any, are
resolved.

    
    
    '/usr/local/bin/node' copy

### `process.exit([code])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | Only accepts a code of type number, or of type string if it represents an integer.  
v0.1.13 | Added in: v0.1.13  
  
  * `code` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The exit code. For string type, only integer strings (e.g.,'1') are allowed. **Default:** `0`.

The `process.exit()` method instructs Node.js to terminate the process
synchronously with an exit status of `code`. If `code` is omitted, exit uses
either the 'success' code `0` or the value of `process.exitCode` if it has
been set. Node.js will not terminate until all the `'exit'` event listeners
are called.

To exit with a 'failure' code:

    
    
    import { exit } from 'node:process';
    
    exit(1);const { exit } = require('node:process');
    
    exit(1);copy

The shell that executed Node.js should see the exit code as `1`.

Calling `process.exit()` will force the process to exit as quickly as possible
even if there are still asynchronous operations pending that have not yet
completed fully, including I/O operations to `process.stdout` and
`process.stderr`.

In most situations, it is not actually necessary to call `process.exit()`
explicitly. The Node.js process will exit on its own _if there is no
additional work pending_ in the event loop. The `process.exitCode` property
can be set to tell the process which exit code to use when the process exits
gracefully.

For instance, the following example illustrates a _misuse_ of the
`process.exit()` method that could lead to data printed to stdout being
truncated and lost:

    
    
    import { exit } from 'node:process';
    
    // This is an example of what *not* to do:
    if (someConditionNotMet()) {
      printUsageToStdout();
      exit(1);
    }const { exit } = require('node:process');
    
    // This is an example of what *not* to do:
    if (someConditionNotMet()) {
      printUsageToStdout();
      exit(1);
    }copy

The reason this is problematic is because writes to `process.stdout` in
Node.js are sometimes _asynchronous_ and may occur over multiple ticks of the
Node.js event loop. Calling `process.exit()`, however, forces the process to
exit _before_ those additional writes to `stdout` can be performed.

Rather than calling `process.exit()` directly, the code _should_ set the
`process.exitCode` and allow the process to exit naturally by avoiding
scheduling any additional work for the event loop:

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    // How to properly set the exit code while letting
    // the process exit gracefully.
    if (someConditionNotMet()) {
      printUsageToStdout();
      process.exitCode = 1;
    }const process = require('node:process');
    
    // How to properly set the exit code while letting
    // the process exit gracefully.
    if (someConditionNotMet()) {
      printUsageToStdout();
      process.exitCode = 1;
    }copy

If it is necessary to terminate the Node.js process due to an error condition,
throwing an _uncaught_ error and allowing the process to terminate accordingly
is safer than calling `process.exit()`.

In `Worker` threads, this function stops the current thread rather than the
current process.

### `process.exitCode`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | Only accepts a code of type number, or of type string if it represents an integer.  
v0.11.8 | Added in: v0.11.8  
  
  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The exit code. For string type, only integer strings (e.g.,'1') are allowed. **Default:** `undefined`.

A number which will be the process exit code, when the process either exits
gracefully, or is exited via `process.exit()` without specifying a code.

The value of `process.exitCode` can be updated by either assigning a value to
`process.exitCode` or by passing an argument to `process.exit()`:

    
    
    $ node -e 'process.exitCode = 9'; echo $?
    9
    $ node -e 'process.exit(42)'; echo $?
    42
    $ node -e 'process.exitCode = 9; process.exit(42)'; echo $?
    42 copy

The value can also be set implicitly by Node.js when unrecoverable errors
occur (e.g. such as the encountering of an unsettled top-level await). However
explicit manipulations of the exit code always take precedence over implicit
ones:

    
    
    $ node --input-type=module -e 'await new Promise(() => {})'; echo $?
    13
    $ node --input-type=module -e 'process.exitCode = 9; await new Promise(() => {})'; echo $?
    9 copy

### `process.features.cached_builtins`#

Added in: v12.0.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

A boolean value that is `true` if the current Node.js build is caching builtin
modules.

### `process.features.debug`#

Added in: v0.5.5

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

A boolean value that is `true` if the current Node.js build is a debug build.

### `process.features.inspector`#

Added in: v11.10.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

A boolean value that is `true` if the current Node.js build includes the
inspector.

### `process.features.ipv6`#

Added in: v0.5.3Deprecated since: v23.4.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. This property is always true, and any checks based
on it are redundant.

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

A boolean value that is `true` if the current Node.js build includes support
for IPv6.

Since all Node.js builds have IPv6 support, this value is always `true`.

### `process.features.require_module`#

Added in: v23.0.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

A boolean value that is `true` if the current Node.js build supports loading
ECMAScript modules using `require()`.

### `process.features.tls`#

Added in: v0.5.3

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

A boolean value that is `true` if the current Node.js build includes support
for TLS.

### `process.features.tls_alpn`#

Added in: v4.8.0Deprecated since: v23.4.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. Use `process.features.tls` instead.

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

A boolean value that is `true` if the current Node.js build includes support
for ALPN in TLS.

In Node.js 11.0.0 and later versions, the OpenSSL dependencies feature
unconditional ALPN support. This value is therefore identical to that of
`process.features.tls`.

### `process.features.tls_ocsp`#

Added in: v0.11.13Deprecated since: v23.4.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. Use `process.features.tls` instead.

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

A boolean value that is `true` if the current Node.js build includes support
for OCSP in TLS.

In Node.js 11.0.0 and later versions, the OpenSSL dependencies feature
unconditional OCSP support. This value is therefore identical to that of
`process.features.tls`.

### `process.features.tls_sni`#

Added in: v0.5.3Deprecated since: v23.4.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. Use `process.features.tls` instead.

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

A boolean value that is `true` if the current Node.js build includes support
for SNI in TLS.

In Node.js 11.0.0 and later versions, the OpenSSL dependencies feature
unconditional SNI support. This value is therefore identical to that of
`process.features.tls`.

### `process.features.typescript`#

Added in: v23.0.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

A value that is `"strip"` by default, `"transform"` if Node.js is run with
`--experimental-transform-types`, and `false` if Node.js is run with `--no-
experimental-strip-types`.

### `process.features.uv`#

Added in: v0.5.3Deprecated since: v23.4.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. This property is always true, and any checks based
on it are redundant.

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

A boolean value that is `true` if the current Node.js build includes support
for libuv.

Since it's not possible to build Node.js without libuv, this value is always
`true`.

### `process.finalization.register(ref, callback)`#

Added in: v22.5.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active Development

  * `ref` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The reference to the resource that is being tracked.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The callback function to be called when the resource is finalized. 
    * `ref` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The reference to the resource that is being tracked.
    * `event` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The event that triggered the finalization. Defaults to 'exit'.

This function registers a callback to be called when the process emits the
`exit` event if the `ref` object was not garbage collected. If the object
`ref` was garbage collected before the `exit` event is emitted, the callback
will be removed from the finalization registry, and it will not be called on
process exit.

Inside the callback you can release the resources allocated by the `ref`
object. Be aware that all limitations applied to the `beforeExit` event are
also applied to the `callback` function, this means that there is a
possibility that the callback will not be called under special circumstances.

The idea of ​​this function is to help you free up resources when the starts
process exiting, but also let the object be garbage collected if it is no
longer being used.

Eg: you can register an object that contains a buffer, you want to make sure
that buffer is released when the process exit, but if the object is garbage
collected before the process exit, we no longer need to release the buffer, so
in this case we just remove the callback from the finalization registry.

    
    
    const { finalization } = require('node:process');
    
    // Please make sure that the function passed to finalization.register()
    // does not create a closure around unnecessary objects.
    function onFinalize(obj, event) {
      // You can do whatever you want with the object
      obj.dispose();
    }
    
    function setup() {
      // This object can be safely garbage collected,
      // and the resulting shutdown function will not be called.
      // There are no leaks.
      const myDisposableObject = {
        dispose() {
          // Free your resources synchronously
        },
      };
    
      finalization.register(myDisposableObject, onFinalize);
    }
    
    setup();import { finalization } from 'node:process';
    
    // Please make sure that the function passed to finalization.register()
    // does not create a closure around unnecessary objects.
    function onFinalize(obj, event) {
      // You can do whatever you want with the object
      obj.dispose();
    }
    
    function setup() {
      // This object can be safely garbage collected,
      // and the resulting shutdown function will not be called.
      // There are no leaks.
      const myDisposableObject = {
        dispose() {
          // Free your resources synchronously
        },
      };
    
      finalization.register(myDisposableObject, onFinalize);
    }
    
    setup();copy

The code above relies on the following assumptions:

  * arrow functions are avoided
  * regular functions are recommended to be within the global context (root)

Regular functions _could_ reference the context where the `obj` lives, making
the `obj` not garbage collectible.

Arrow functions will hold the previous context. Consider, for example:

    
    
    class Test {
      constructor() {
        finalization.register(this, (ref) => ref.dispose());
    
        // Even something like this is highly discouraged
        // finalization.register(this, () => this.dispose());
      }
      dispose() {}
    } copy

It is very unlikely (not impossible) that this object will be garbage
collected, but if it is not, `dispose` will be called when `process.exit` is
called.

Be careful and avoid relying on this feature for the disposal of critical
resources, as it is not guaranteed that the callback will be called under all
circumstances.

### `process.finalization.registerBeforeExit(ref, callback)`#

Added in: v22.5.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active Development

  * `ref` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The reference to the resource that is being tracked.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The callback function to be called when the resource is finalized. 
    * `ref` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The reference to the resource that is being tracked.
    * `event` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The event that triggered the finalization. Defaults to 'beforeExit'.

This function behaves exactly like the `register`, except that the callback
will be called when the process emits the `beforeExit` event if `ref` object
was not garbage collected.

Be aware that all limitations applied to the `beforeExit` event are also
applied to the `callback` function, this means that there is a possibility
that the callback will not be called under special circumstances.

### `process.finalization.unregister(ref)`#

Added in: v22.5.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active Development

  * `ref` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The reference to the resource that was registered previously.

This function remove the register of the object from the finalization
registry, so the callback will not be called anymore.

    
    
    const { finalization } = require('node:process');
    
    // Please make sure that the function passed to finalization.register()
    // does not create a closure around unnecessary objects.
    function onFinalize(obj, event) {
      // You can do whatever you want with the object
      obj.dispose();
    }
    
    function setup() {
      // This object can be safely garbage collected,
      // and the resulting shutdown function will not be called.
      // There are no leaks.
      const myDisposableObject = {
        dispose() {
          // Free your resources synchronously
        },
      };
    
      finalization.register(myDisposableObject, onFinalize);
    
      // Do something
    
      myDisposableObject.dispose();
      finalization.unregister(myDisposableObject);
    }
    
    setup();import { finalization } from 'node:process';
    
    // Please make sure that the function passed to finalization.register()
    // does not create a closure around unnecessary objects.
    function onFinalize(obj, event) {
      // You can do whatever you want with the object
      obj.dispose();
    }
    
    function setup() {
      // This object can be safely garbage collected,
      // and the resulting shutdown function will not be called.
      // There are no leaks.
      const myDisposableObject = {
        dispose() {
          // Free your resources synchronously
        },
      };
    
      // Please make sure that the function passed to finalization.register()
      // does not create a closure around unnecessary objects.
      function onFinalize(obj, event) {
        // You can do whatever you want with the object
        obj.dispose();
      }
    
      finalization.register(myDisposableObject, onFinalize);
    
      // Do something
    
      myDisposableObject.dispose();
      finalization.unregister(myDisposableObject);
    }
    
    setup();copy

### `process.getActiveResourcesInfo()`#

Added in: v17.3.0, v16.14.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `process.getActiveResourcesInfo()` method returns an array of strings
containing the types of the active resources that are currently keeping the
event loop alive.

    
    
    import { getActiveResourcesInfo } from 'node:process';
    import { setTimeout } from 'node:timers';
    
    console.log('Before:', getActiveResourcesInfo());
    setTimeout(() => {}, 1000);
    console.log('After:', getActiveResourcesInfo());
    // Prints:
    //   Before: [ 'CloseReq', 'TTYWrap', 'TTYWrap', 'TTYWrap' ]
    //   After: [ 'CloseReq', 'TTYWrap', 'TTYWrap', 'TTYWrap', 'Timeout' ]const { getActiveResourcesInfo } = require('node:process');
    const { setTimeout } = require('node:timers');
    
    console.log('Before:', getActiveResourcesInfo());
    setTimeout(() => {}, 1000);
    console.log('After:', getActiveResourcesInfo());
    // Prints:
    //   Before: [ 'TTYWrap', 'TTYWrap', 'TTYWrap' ]
    //   After: [ 'TTYWrap', 'TTYWrap', 'TTYWrap', 'Timeout' ]copy

### `process.getBuiltinModule(id)`#

Added in: v22.3.0, v20.16.0

  * `id` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) ID of the built-in module being requested.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

`process.getBuiltinModule(id)` provides a way to load built-in modules in a
globally available function. ES Modules that need to support other
environments can use it to conditionally load a Node.js built-in when it is
run in Node.js, without having to deal with the resolution error that can be
thrown by `import` in a non-Node.js environment or having to use dynamic
`import()` which either turns the module into an asynchronous module, or turns
a synchronous API into an asynchronous one.

    
    
    if (globalThis.process?.getBuiltinModule) {
      // Run in Node.js, use the Node.js fs module.
      const fs = globalThis.process.getBuiltinModule('fs');
      // If `require()` is needed to load user-modules, use createRequire()
      const module = globalThis.process.getBuiltinModule('module');
      const require = module.createRequire(import.meta.url);
      const foo = require('foo');
    } copy

If `id` specifies a built-in module available in the current Node.js process,
`process.getBuiltinModule(id)` method returns the corresponding built-in
module. If `id` does not correspond to any built-in module, `undefined` is
returned.

`process.getBuiltinModule(id)` accepts built-in module IDs that are recognized
by `module.isBuiltin(id)`. Some built-in modules must be loaded with the
`node:` prefix, see built-in modules with mandatory `node:` prefix. The
references returned by `process.getBuiltinModule(id)` always point to the
built-in module corresponding to `id` even if users modify `require.cache` so
that `require(id)` returns something else.

### `process.getegid()`#

Added in: v2.0.0

The `process.getegid()` method returns the numerical effective group identity
of the Node.js process. (See [`getegid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/getegid.2.html).)

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    if (process.getegid) {
      console.log(`Current gid: ${process.getegid()}`);
    }const process = require('node:process');
    
    if (process.getegid) {
      console.log(`Current gid: ${process.getegid()}`);
    }copy

This function is only available on POSIX platforms (i.e. not Windows or
Android).

### `process.geteuid()`#

Added in: v2.0.0

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The `process.geteuid()` method returns the numerical effective user identity
of the process. (See [`geteuid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/geteuid.2.html).)

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    if (process.geteuid) {
      console.log(`Current uid: ${process.geteuid()}`);
    }const process = require('node:process');
    
    if (process.geteuid) {
      console.log(`Current uid: ${process.geteuid()}`);
    }copy

This function is only available on POSIX platforms (i.e. not Windows or
Android).

### `process.getgid()`#

Added in: v0.1.31

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The `process.getgid()` method returns the numerical group identity of the
process. (See [`getgid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/getgid.2.html).)

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    if (process.getgid) {
      console.log(`Current gid: ${process.getgid()}`);
    }const process = require('node:process');
    
    if (process.getgid) {
      console.log(`Current gid: ${process.getgid()}`);
    }copy

This function is only available on POSIX platforms (i.e. not Windows or
Android).

### `process.getgroups()`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * Returns: [<integer[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `process.getgroups()` method returns an array with the supplementary group
IDs. POSIX leaves it unspecified if the effective group ID is included but
Node.js ensures it always is.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    if (process.getgroups) {
      console.log(process.getgroups()); // [ 16, 21, 297 ]
    }const process = require('node:process');
    
    if (process.getgroups) {
      console.log(process.getgroups()); // [ 16, 21, 297 ]
    }copy

This function is only available on POSIX platforms (i.e. not Windows or
Android).

### `process.getuid()`#

Added in: v0.1.28

  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `process.getuid()` method returns the numeric user identity of the
process. (See [`getuid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/getuid.2.html).)

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    if (process.getuid) {
      console.log(`Current uid: ${process.getuid()}`);
    }const process = require('node:process');
    
    if (process.getuid) {
      console.log(`Current uid: ${process.getuid()}`);
    }copy

This function is only available on POSIX platforms (i.e. not Windows or
Android).

### `process.hasUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback()`#

Added in: v9.3.0

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Indicates whether a callback has been set using
`process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback()`.

### `process.hrtime([time])`#

Added in: v0.7.6

Stability: 3 \- Legacy. Use `process.hrtime.bigint()` instead.

  * `time` [<integer[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The result of a previous call to `process.hrtime()`
  * Returns: [<integer[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

This is the legacy version of `process.hrtime.bigint()` before `bigint` was
introduced in JavaScript.

The `process.hrtime()` method returns the current high-resolution real time in
a `[seconds, nanoseconds]` tuple `Array`, where `nanoseconds` is the remaining
part of the real time that can't be represented in second precision.

`time` is an optional parameter that must be the result of a previous
`process.hrtime()` call to diff with the current time. If the parameter passed
in is not a tuple `Array`, a `TypeError` will be thrown. Passing in a user-
defined array instead of the result of a previous call to `process.hrtime()`
will lead to undefined behavior.

These times are relative to an arbitrary time in the past, and not related to
the time of day and therefore not subject to clock drift. The primary use is
for measuring performance between intervals:

    
    
    import { hrtime } from 'node:process';
    
    const NS_PER_SEC = 1e9;
    const time = hrtime();
    // [ 1800216, 25 ]
    
    setTimeout(() => {
      const diff = hrtime(time);
      // [ 1, 552 ]
    
      console.log(`Benchmark took ${diff[0] * NS_PER_SEC + diff[1]} nanoseconds`);
      // Benchmark took 1000000552 nanoseconds
    }, 1000);const { hrtime } = require('node:process');
    
    const NS_PER_SEC = 1e9;
    const time = hrtime();
    // [ 1800216, 25 ]
    
    setTimeout(() => {
      const diff = hrtime(time);
      // [ 1, 552 ]
    
      console.log(`Benchmark took ${diff[0] * NS_PER_SEC + diff[1]} nanoseconds`);
      // Benchmark took 1000000552 nanoseconds
    }, 1000);copy

### `process.hrtime.bigint()`#

Added in: v10.7.0

  * Returns: [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)

The `bigint` version of the `process.hrtime()` method returning the current
high-resolution real time in nanoseconds as a `bigint`.

Unlike `process.hrtime()`, it does not support an additional `time` argument
since the difference can just be computed directly by subtraction of the two
`bigint`s.

    
    
    import { hrtime } from 'node:process';
    
    const start = hrtime.bigint();
    // 191051479007711n
    
    setTimeout(() => {
      const end = hrtime.bigint();
      // 191052633396993n
    
      console.log(`Benchmark took ${end - start} nanoseconds`);
      // Benchmark took 1154389282 nanoseconds
    }, 1000);const { hrtime } = require('node:process');
    
    const start = hrtime.bigint();
    // 191051479007711n
    
    setTimeout(() => {
      const end = hrtime.bigint();
      // 191052633396993n
    
      console.log(`Benchmark took ${end - start} nanoseconds`);
      // Benchmark took 1154389282 nanoseconds
    }, 1000);copy

### `process.initgroups(user, extraGroup)`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * `user` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The user name or numeric identifier.
  * `extraGroup` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A group name or numeric identifier.

The `process.initgroups()` method reads the `/etc/group` file and initializes
the group access list, using all groups of which the user is a member. This is
a privileged operation that requires that the Node.js process either have
`root` access or the `CAP_SETGID` capability.

Use care when dropping privileges:

    
    
    import { getgroups, initgroups, setgid } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(getgroups());         // [ 0 ]
    initgroups('nodeuser', 1000);     // switch user
    console.log(getgroups());         // [ 27, 30, 46, 1000, 0 ]
    setgid(1000);                     // drop root gid
    console.log(getgroups());         // [ 27, 30, 46, 1000 ]const { getgroups, initgroups, setgid } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(getgroups());         // [ 0 ]
    initgroups('nodeuser', 1000);     // switch user
    console.log(getgroups());         // [ 27, 30, 46, 1000, 0 ]
    setgid(1000);                     // drop root gid
    console.log(getgroups());         // [ 27, 30, 46, 1000 ]copy

This function is only available on POSIX platforms (i.e. not Windows or
Android). This feature is not available in `Worker` threads.

### `process.kill(pid[, signal])`#

Added in: v0.0.6

  * `pid` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A process ID
  * `signal` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The signal to send, either as a string or number. **Default:** `'SIGTERM'`.

The `process.kill()` method sends the `signal` to the process identified by
`pid`.

Signal names are strings such as `'SIGINT'` or `'SIGHUP'`. See Signal Events
and [`kill(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/kill.2.html) for more
information.

This method will throw an error if the target `pid` does not exist. As a
special case, a signal of `0` can be used to test for the existence of a
process. Windows platforms will throw an error if the `pid` is used to kill a
process group.

Even though the name of this function is `process.kill()`, it is really just a
signal sender, like the `kill` system call. The signal sent may do something
other than kill the target process.

    
    
    import process, { kill } from 'node:process';
    
    process.on('SIGHUP', () => {
      console.log('Got SIGHUP signal.');
    });
    
    setTimeout(() => {
      console.log('Exiting.');
      process.exit(0);
    }, 100);
    
    kill(process.pid, 'SIGHUP');const process = require('node:process');
    
    process.on('SIGHUP', () => {
      console.log('Got SIGHUP signal.');
    });
    
    setTimeout(() => {
      console.log('Exiting.');
      process.exit(0);
    }, 100);
    
    process.kill(process.pid, 'SIGHUP');copy

When `SIGUSR1` is received by a Node.js process, Node.js will start the
debugger. See Signal Events.

### `process.loadEnvFile(path)`#

Added in: v21.7.0, v20.12.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> | <Buffer> | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type). **Default:** `'./.env'`

Loads the `.env` file into `process.env`. Usage of `NODE_OPTIONS` in the
`.env` file will not have any effect on Node.js.

    
    
    const { loadEnvFile } = require('node:process');
    loadEnvFile();import { loadEnvFile } from 'node:process';
    loadEnvFile();copy

### `process.mainModule`#

Added in: v0.1.17Deprecated since: v14.0.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `require.main` instead.

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The `process.mainModule` property provides an alternative way of retrieving
`require.main`. The difference is that if the main module changes at runtime,
`require.main` may still refer to the original main module in modules that
were required before the change occurred. Generally, it's safe to assume that
the two refer to the same module.

As with `require.main`, `process.mainModule` will be `undefined` if there is
no entry script.

### `process.memoryUsage()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.9.0, v12.17.0 | Added `arrayBuffers` to the returned object.  
v7.2.0 | Added `external` to the returned object.  
v0.1.16 | Added in: v0.1.16  
  
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `rss` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `heapTotal` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `heapUsed` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `external` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `arrayBuffers` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns an object describing the memory usage of the Node.js process measured
in bytes.

    
    
    import { memoryUsage } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(memoryUsage());
    // Prints:
    // {
    //  rss: 4935680,
    //  heapTotal: 1826816,
    //  heapUsed: 650472,
    //  external: 49879,
    //  arrayBuffers: 9386
    // }const { memoryUsage } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(memoryUsage());
    // Prints:
    // {
    //  rss: 4935680,
    //  heapTotal: 1826816,
    //  heapUsed: 650472,
    //  external: 49879,
    //  arrayBuffers: 9386
    // }copy

  * `heapTotal` and `heapUsed` refer to V8's memory usage.
  * `external` refers to the memory usage of C++ objects bound to JavaScript objects managed by V8.
  * `rss`, Resident Set Size, is the amount of space occupied in the main memory device (that is a subset of the total allocated memory) for the process, including all C++ and JavaScript objects and code.
  * `arrayBuffers` refers to memory allocated for `ArrayBuffer`s and `SharedArrayBuffer`s, including all Node.js [`Buffer`](buffer.html)s. This is also included in the `external` value. When Node.js is used as an embedded library, this value may be `0` because allocations for `ArrayBuffer`s may not be tracked in that case.

When using `Worker` threads, `rss` will be a value that is valid for the
entire process, while the other fields will only refer to the current thread.

The `process.memoryUsage()` method iterates over each page to gather
information about memory usage which might be slow depending on the program
memory allocations.

### `process.memoryUsage.rss()`#

Added in: v15.6.0, v14.18.0

  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `process.memoryUsage.rss()` method returns an integer representing the
Resident Set Size (RSS) in bytes.

The Resident Set Size, is the amount of space occupied in the main memory
device (that is a subset of the total allocated memory) for the process,
including all C++ and JavaScript objects and code.

This is the same value as the `rss` property provided by
`process.memoryUsage()` but `process.memoryUsage.rss()` is faster.

    
    
    import { memoryUsage } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(memoryUsage.rss());
    // 35655680const { memoryUsage } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(memoryUsage.rss());
    // 35655680copy

### `process.nextTick(callback[, ...args])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.7.0, v20.18.0 | Changed stability to Legacy.  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v1.8.1 | Additional arguments after `callback` are now supported.  
v0.1.26 | Added in: v0.1.26  
  
Stability: 3 \- Legacy: Use `queueMicrotask()` instead.

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Additional arguments to pass when invoking the `callback`

`process.nextTick()` adds `callback` to the "next tick queue". This queue is
fully drained after the current operation on the JavaScript stack runs to
completion and before the event loop is allowed to continue. It's possible to
create an infinite loop if one were to recursively call `process.nextTick()`.
See the [Event Loop](https://nodejs.org/en/learn/asynchronous-work/event-loop-
timers-and-nexttick#understanding-processnexttick) guide for more background.

    
    
    import { nextTick } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log('start');
    nextTick(() => {
      console.log('nextTick callback');
    });
    console.log('scheduled');
    // Output:
    // start
    // scheduled
    // nextTick callbackconst { nextTick } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log('start');
    nextTick(() => {
      console.log('nextTick callback');
    });
    console.log('scheduled');
    // Output:
    // start
    // scheduled
    // nextTick callbackcopy

This is important when developing APIs in order to give users the opportunity
to assign event handlers _after_ an object has been constructed but before any
I/O has occurred:

    
    
    import { nextTick } from 'node:process';
    
    function MyThing(options) {
      this.setupOptions(options);
    
      nextTick(() => {
        this.startDoingStuff();
      });
    }
    
    const thing = new MyThing();
    thing.getReadyForStuff();
    
    // thing.startDoingStuff() gets called now, not before.const { nextTick } = require('node:process');
    
    function MyThing(options) {
      this.setupOptions(options);
    
      nextTick(() => {
        this.startDoingStuff();
      });
    }
    
    const thing = new MyThing();
    thing.getReadyForStuff();
    
    // thing.startDoingStuff() gets called now, not before.copy

It is very important for APIs to be either 100% synchronous or 100%
asynchronous. Consider this example:

    
    
    // WARNING!  DO NOT USE!  BAD UNSAFE HAZARD!
    function maybeSync(arg, cb) {
      if (arg) {
        cb();
        return;
      }
    
      fs.stat('file', cb);
    } copy

This API is hazardous because in the following case:

    
    
    const maybeTrue = Math.random() > 0.5;
    
    maybeSync(maybeTrue, () => {
      foo();
    });
    
    bar(); copy

It is not clear whether `foo()` or `bar()` will be called first.

The following approach is much better:

    
    
    import { nextTick } from 'node:process';
    
    function definitelyAsync(arg, cb) {
      if (arg) {
        nextTick(cb);
        return;
      }
    
      fs.stat('file', cb);
    }const { nextTick } = require('node:process');
    
    function definitelyAsync(arg, cb) {
      if (arg) {
        nextTick(cb);
        return;
      }
    
      fs.stat('file', cb);
    }copy

#### When to use `queueMicrotask()` vs. `process.nextTick()`#

The `queueMicrotask()` API is an alternative to `process.nextTick()` that
instead of using the "next tick queue" defers execution of a function using
the same microtask queue used to execute the then, catch, and finally handlers
of resolved promises.

Within Node.js, every time the "next tick queue" is drained, the microtask
queue is drained immediately after.

So in CJS modules `process.nextTick()` callbacks are always run before
`queueMicrotask()` ones. However since ESM modules are processed already as
part of the microtask queue, there `queueMicrotask()` callbacks are always
exectued before `process.nextTick()` ones since Node.js is already in the
process of draining the microtask queue.

    
    
    import { nextTick } from 'node:process';
    
    Promise.resolve().then(() => console.log('resolve'));
    queueMicrotask(() => console.log('microtask'));
    nextTick(() => console.log('nextTick'));
    // Output:
    // resolve
    // microtask
    // nextTickconst { nextTick } = require('node:process');
    
    Promise.resolve().then(() => console.log('resolve'));
    queueMicrotask(() => console.log('microtask'));
    nextTick(() => console.log('nextTick'));
    // Output:
    // nextTick
    // resolve
    // microtaskcopy

For _most_ userland use cases, the `queueMicrotask()` API provides a portable
and reliable mechanism for deferring execution that works across multiple
JavaScript platform environments and should be favored over
`process.nextTick()`. In simple scenarios, `queueMicrotask()` can be a drop-in
replacement for `process.nextTick()`.

    
    
    console.log('start');
    queueMicrotask(() => {
      console.log('microtask callback');
    });
    console.log('scheduled');
    // Output:
    // start
    // scheduled
    // microtask callback copy

One note-worthy difference between the two APIs is that `process.nextTick()`
allows specifying additional values that will be passed as arguments to the
deferred function when it is called. Achieving the same result with
`queueMicrotask()` requires using either a closure or a bound function:

    
    
    function deferred(a, b) {
      console.log('microtask', a + b);
    }
    
    console.log('start');
    queueMicrotask(deferred.bind(undefined, 1, 2));
    console.log('scheduled');
    // Output:
    // start
    // scheduled
    // microtask 3 copy

There are minor differences in the way errors raised from within the next tick
queue and microtask queue are handled. Errors thrown within a queued microtask
callback should be handled within the queued callback when possible. If they
are not, the `process.on('uncaughtException')` event handler can be used to
capture and handle the errors.

When in doubt, unless the specific capabilities of `process.nextTick()` are
needed, use `queueMicrotask()`.

### `process.noDeprecation`#

Added in: v0.8.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `process.noDeprecation` property indicates whether the `--no-deprecation`
flag is set on the current Node.js process. See the documentation for the
`'warning'` event and the `emitWarning()` method for more information about
this flag's behavior.

### `process.permission`#

Added in: v20.0.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

This API is available through the `--permission` flag.

`process.permission` is an object whose methods are used to manage permissions
for the current process. Additional documentation is available in the
Permission Model.

#### `process.permission.has(scope[, reference])`#

Added in: v20.0.0

  * `scope` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `reference` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Verifies that the process is able to access the given scope and reference. If
no reference is provided, a global scope is assumed, for instance,
`process.permission.has('fs.read')` will check if the process has ALL file
system read permissions.

The reference has a meaning based on the provided scope. For example, the
reference when the scope is File System means files and folders.

The available scopes are:

  * `fs` \- All File System
  * `fs.read` \- File System read operations
  * `fs.write` \- File System write operations
  * `child` \- Child process spawning operations
  * `worker` \- Worker thread spawning operation

    
    
    // Check if the process has permission to read the README file
    process.permission.has('fs.read', './README.md');
    // Check if the process has read permission operations
    process.permission.has('fs.read'); copy

### `process.pid`#

Added in: v0.1.15

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `process.pid` property returns the PID of the process.

    
    
    import { pid } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(`This process is pid ${pid}`);const { pid } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(`This process is pid ${pid}`);copy

### `process.platform`#

Added in: v0.1.16

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `process.platform` property returns a string identifying the operating
system platform for which the Node.js binary was compiled.

Currently possible values are:

  * `'aix'`
  * `'darwin'`
  * `'freebsd'`
  * `'linux'`
  * `'openbsd'`
  * `'sunos'`
  * `'win32'`

    
    
    import { platform } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(`This platform is ${platform}`);const { platform } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(`This platform is ${platform}`);copy

The value `'android'` may also be returned if the Node.js is built on the
Android operating system. However, Android support in Node.js [is
experimental](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/HEAD/BUILDING.md#android).

### `process.ppid`#

Added in: v9.2.0, v8.10.0, v6.13.0

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `process.ppid` property returns the PID of the parent of the current
process.

    
    
    import { ppid } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(`The parent process is pid ${ppid}`);const { ppid } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(`The parent process is pid ${ppid}`);copy

### `process.ref(maybeRefable)`#

Added in: v23.6.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `maybeRefable` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) An object that may be "refable".

An object is "refable" if it implements the Node.js "Refable protocol".
Specifically, this means that the object implements the
`Symbol.for('nodejs.ref')` and `Symbol.for('nodejs.unref')` methods. "Ref'd"
objects will keep the Node.js event loop alive, while "unref'd" objects will
not. Historically, this was implemented by using `ref()` and `unref()` methods
directly on the objects. This pattern, however, is being deprecated in favor
of the "Refable protocol" in order to better support Web Platform API types
whose APIs cannot be modified to add `ref()` and `unref()` methods but still
need to support that behavior.

### `process.release`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v4.2.0 | The `lts` property is now supported.  
v3.0.0 | Added in: v3.0.0  
  
  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The `process.release` property returns an `Object` containing metadata related
to the current release, including URLs for the source tarball and headers-only
tarball.

`process.release` contains the following properties:

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A value that will always be `'node'`.
  * `sourceUrl` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) an absolute URL pointing to a _`.tar.gz`_ file containing the source code of the current release.
  * `headersUrl`[<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) an absolute URL pointing to a _`.tar.gz`_ file containing only the source header files for the current release. This file is significantly smaller than the full source file and can be used for compiling Node.js native add-ons.
  * `libUrl` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) an absolute URL pointing to a _`node.lib`_ file matching the architecture and version of the current release. This file is used for compiling Node.js native add-ons. _This property is only present on Windows builds of Node.js and will be missing on all other platforms._
  * `lts` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) a string label identifying the [LTS](https://github.com/nodejs/Release) label for this release. This property only exists for LTS releases and is `undefined` for all other release types, including _Current_ releases. Valid values include the LTS Release code names (including those that are no longer supported). 
    * `'Fermium'` for the 14.x LTS line beginning with 14.15.0.
    * `'Gallium'` for the 16.x LTS line beginning with 16.13.0.
    * `'Hydrogen'` for the 18.x LTS line beginning with 18.12.0. For other LTS Release code names, see [Node.js Changelog Archive](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/HEAD/doc/changelogs/CHANGELOG_ARCHIVE.md)

    
    
    {
      name: 'node',
      lts: 'Hydrogen',
      sourceUrl: 'https://nodejs.org/download/release/v18.12.0/node-v18.12.0.tar.gz',
      headersUrl: 'https://nodejs.org/download/release/v18.12.0/node-v18.12.0-headers.tar.gz',
      libUrl: 'https://nodejs.org/download/release/v18.12.0/win-x64/node.lib'
    } copy

In custom builds from non-release versions of the source tree, only the `name`
property may be present. The additional properties should not be relied upon
to exist.

### `process.report`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.12.0, v12.17.0 | This API is no longer experimental.  
v11.8.0 | Added in: v11.8.0  
  
  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

`process.report` is an object whose methods are used to generate diagnostic
reports for the current process. Additional documentation is available in the
[report documentation](report.html).

#### `process.report.compact`#

Added in: v13.12.0, v12.17.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Write reports in a compact format, single-line JSON, more easily consumable by
log processing systems than the default multi-line format designed for human
consumption.

    
    
    import { report } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(`Reports are compact? ${report.compact}`);const { report } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(`Reports are compact? ${report.compact}`);copy

#### `process.report.directory`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.12.0, v12.17.0 | This API is no longer experimental.  
v11.12.0 | Added in: v11.12.0  
  
  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Directory where the report is written. The default value is the empty string,
indicating that reports are written to the current working directory of the
Node.js process.

    
    
    import { report } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(`Report directory is ${report.directory}`);const { report } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(`Report directory is ${report.directory}`);copy

#### `process.report.filename`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.12.0, v12.17.0 | This API is no longer experimental.  
v11.12.0 | Added in: v11.12.0  
  
  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Filename where the report is written. If set to the empty string, the output
filename will be comprised of a timestamp, PID, and sequence number. The
default value is the empty string.

If the value of `process.report.filename` is set to `'stdout'` or `'stderr'`,
the report is written to the stdout or stderr of the process respectively.

    
    
    import { report } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(`Report filename is ${report.filename}`);const { report } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(`Report filename is ${report.filename}`);copy

#### `process.report.getReport([err])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.12.0, v12.17.0 | This API is no longer experimental.  
v11.8.0 | Added in: v11.8.0  
  
  * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) A custom error used for reporting the JavaScript stack.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns a JavaScript Object representation of a diagnostic report for the
running process. The report's JavaScript stack trace is taken from `err`, if
present.

    
    
    import { report } from 'node:process';
    import util from 'node:util';
    
    const data = report.getReport();
    console.log(data.header.nodejsVersion);
    
    // Similar to process.report.writeReport()
    import fs from 'node:fs';
    fs.writeFileSync('my-report.log', util.inspect(data), 'utf8');const { report } = require('node:process');
    const util = require('node:util');
    
    const data = report.getReport();
    console.log(data.header.nodejsVersion);
    
    // Similar to process.report.writeReport()
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    fs.writeFileSync('my-report.log', util.inspect(data), 'utf8');copy

Additional documentation is available in the [report
documentation](report.html).

#### `process.report.reportOnFatalError`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0, v14.17.0 | This API is no longer experimental.  
v11.12.0 | Added in: v11.12.0  
  
  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

If `true`, a diagnostic report is generated on fatal errors, such as out of
memory errors or failed C++ assertions.

    
    
    import { report } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(`Report on fatal error: ${report.reportOnFatalError}`);const { report } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(`Report on fatal error: ${report.reportOnFatalError}`);copy

#### `process.report.reportOnSignal`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.12.0, v12.17.0 | This API is no longer experimental.  
v11.12.0 | Added in: v11.12.0  
  
  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

If `true`, a diagnostic report is generated when the process receives the
signal specified by `process.report.signal`.

    
    
    import { report } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(`Report on signal: ${report.reportOnSignal}`);const { report } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(`Report on signal: ${report.reportOnSignal}`);copy

#### `process.report.reportOnUncaughtException`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.12.0, v12.17.0 | This API is no longer experimental.  
v11.12.0 | Added in: v11.12.0  
  
  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

If `true`, a diagnostic report is generated on uncaught exception.

    
    
    import { report } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(`Report on exception: ${report.reportOnUncaughtException}`);const { report } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(`Report on exception: ${report.reportOnUncaughtException}`);copy

#### `process.report.excludeEnv`#

Added in: v23.3.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

If `true`, a diagnostic report is generated without the environment variables.

#### `process.report.signal`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.12.0, v12.17.0 | This API is no longer experimental.  
v11.12.0 | Added in: v11.12.0  
  
  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The signal used to trigger the creation of a diagnostic report. Defaults to
`'SIGUSR2'`.

    
    
    import { report } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(`Report signal: ${report.signal}`);const { report } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(`Report signal: ${report.signal}`);copy

#### `process.report.writeReport([filename][, err])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.12.0, v12.17.0 | This API is no longer experimental.  
v11.8.0 | Added in: v11.8.0  
  
  * `filename` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of the file where the report is written. This should be a relative path, that will be appended to the directory specified in `process.report.directory`, or the current working directory of the Node.js process, if unspecified.

  * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) A custom error used for reporting the JavaScript stack.

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Returns the filename of the generated report.

Writes a diagnostic report to a file. If `filename` is not provided, the
default filename includes the date, time, PID, and a sequence number. The
report's JavaScript stack trace is taken from `err`, if present.

If the value of `filename` is set to `'stdout'` or `'stderr'`, the report is
written to the stdout or stderr of the process respectively.

    
    
    import { report } from 'node:process';
    
    report.writeReport();const { report } = require('node:process');
    
    report.writeReport();copy

Additional documentation is available in the [report
documentation](report.html).

### `process.resourceUsage()`#

Added in: v12.6.0

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) the resource usage for the current process. All of these values come from the `uv_getrusage` call which returns a [`uv_rusage_t` struct](https://docs.libuv.org/en/v1.x/misc.html#c.uv_rusage_t). 
    * `userCPUTime` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) maps to `ru_utime` computed in microseconds. It is the same value as `process.cpuUsage().user`.
    * `systemCPUTime` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) maps to `ru_stime` computed in microseconds. It is the same value as `process.cpuUsage().system`.
    * `maxRSS` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) maps to `ru_maxrss` which is the maximum resident set size used in kilobytes.
    * `sharedMemorySize` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) maps to `ru_ixrss` but is not supported by any platform.
    * `unsharedDataSize` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) maps to `ru_idrss` but is not supported by any platform.
    * `unsharedStackSize` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) maps to `ru_isrss` but is not supported by any platform.
    * `minorPageFault` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) maps to `ru_minflt` which is the number of minor page faults for the process, see [this article for more details](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Page_fault#Minor).
    * `majorPageFault` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) maps to `ru_majflt` which is the number of major page faults for the process, see [this article for more details](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Page_fault#Major). This field is not supported on Windows.
    * `swappedOut` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) maps to `ru_nswap` but is not supported by any platform.
    * `fsRead` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) maps to `ru_inblock` which is the number of times the file system had to perform input.
    * `fsWrite` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) maps to `ru_oublock` which is the number of times the file system had to perform output.
    * `ipcSent` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) maps to `ru_msgsnd` but is not supported by any platform.
    * `ipcReceived` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) maps to `ru_msgrcv` but is not supported by any platform.
    * `signalsCount` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) maps to `ru_nsignals` but is not supported by any platform.
    * `voluntaryContextSwitches` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) maps to `ru_nvcsw` which is the number of times a CPU context switch resulted due to a process voluntarily giving up the processor before its time slice was completed (usually to await availability of a resource). This field is not supported on Windows.
    * `involuntaryContextSwitches` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) maps to `ru_nivcsw` which is the number of times a CPU context switch resulted due to a higher priority process becoming runnable or because the current process exceeded its time slice. This field is not supported on Windows.

    
    
    import { resourceUsage } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(resourceUsage());
    /*
      Will output:
      {
        userCPUTime: 82872,
        systemCPUTime: 4143,
        maxRSS: 33164,
        sharedMemorySize: 0,
        unsharedDataSize: 0,
        unsharedStackSize: 0,
        minorPageFault: 2469,
        majorPageFault: 0,
        swappedOut: 0,
        fsRead: 0,
        fsWrite: 8,
        ipcSent: 0,
        ipcReceived: 0,
        signalsCount: 0,
        voluntaryContextSwitches: 79,
        involuntaryContextSwitches: 1
      }
    */const { resourceUsage } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(resourceUsage());
    /*
      Will output:
      {
        userCPUTime: 82872,
        systemCPUTime: 4143,
        maxRSS: 33164,
        sharedMemorySize: 0,
        unsharedDataSize: 0,
        unsharedStackSize: 0,
        minorPageFault: 2469,
        majorPageFault: 0,
        swappedOut: 0,
        fsRead: 0,
        fsWrite: 8,
        ipcSent: 0,
        ipcReceived: 0,
        signalsCount: 0,
        voluntaryContextSwitches: 79,
        involuntaryContextSwitches: 1
      }
    */copy

### `process.send(message[, sendHandle[, options]][, callback])`#

Added in: v0.5.9

  * `message` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * `sendHandle` <net.Server> | <net.Socket>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) used to parameterize the sending of certain types of handles.`options` supports the following properties: 
    * `keepOpen` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) A value that can be used when passing instances of `net.Socket`. When `true`, the socket is kept open in the sending process. **Default:** `false`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

If Node.js is spawned with an IPC channel, the `process.send()` method can be
used to send messages to the parent process. Messages will be received as a
`'message'` event on the parent's `ChildProcess` object.

If Node.js was not spawned with an IPC channel, `process.send` will be
`undefined`.

The message goes through serialization and parsing. The resulting message
might not be the same as what is originally sent.

### `process.setegid(id)`#

Added in: v2.0.0

  * `id` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A group name or ID

The `process.setegid()` method sets the effective group identity of the
process. (See [`setegid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/setegid.2.html).) The `id` can be passed as either a numeric ID or
a group name string. If a group name is specified, this method blocks while
resolving the associated a numeric ID.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    if (process.getegid && process.setegid) {
      console.log(`Current gid: ${process.getegid()}`);
      try {
        process.setegid(501);
        console.log(`New gid: ${process.getegid()}`);
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(`Failed to set gid: ${err}`);
      }
    }const process = require('node:process');
    
    if (process.getegid && process.setegid) {
      console.log(`Current gid: ${process.getegid()}`);
      try {
        process.setegid(501);
        console.log(`New gid: ${process.getegid()}`);
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(`Failed to set gid: ${err}`);
      }
    }copy

This function is only available on POSIX platforms (i.e. not Windows or
Android). This feature is not available in `Worker` threads.

### `process.seteuid(id)`#

Added in: v2.0.0

  * `id` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A user name or ID

The `process.seteuid()` method sets the effective user identity of the
process. (See [`seteuid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man2/seteuid.2.html).) The `id` can be passed as either a numeric ID or
a username string. If a username is specified, the method blocks while
resolving the associated numeric ID.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    if (process.geteuid && process.seteuid) {
      console.log(`Current uid: ${process.geteuid()}`);
      try {
        process.seteuid(501);
        console.log(`New uid: ${process.geteuid()}`);
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(`Failed to set uid: ${err}`);
      }
    }const process = require('node:process');
    
    if (process.geteuid && process.seteuid) {
      console.log(`Current uid: ${process.geteuid()}`);
      try {
        process.seteuid(501);
        console.log(`New uid: ${process.geteuid()}`);
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(`Failed to set uid: ${err}`);
      }
    }copy

This function is only available on POSIX platforms (i.e. not Windows or
Android). This feature is not available in `Worker` threads.

### `process.setgid(id)`#

Added in: v0.1.31

  * `id` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The group name or ID

The `process.setgid()` method sets the group identity of the process. (See
[`setgid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setgid.2.html).) The `id`
can be passed as either a numeric ID or a group name string. If a group name
is specified, this method blocks while resolving the associated numeric ID.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    if (process.getgid && process.setgid) {
      console.log(`Current gid: ${process.getgid()}`);
      try {
        process.setgid(501);
        console.log(`New gid: ${process.getgid()}`);
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(`Failed to set gid: ${err}`);
      }
    }const process = require('node:process');
    
    if (process.getgid && process.setgid) {
      console.log(`Current gid: ${process.getgid()}`);
      try {
        process.setgid(501);
        console.log(`New gid: ${process.getgid()}`);
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(`Failed to set gid: ${err}`);
      }
    }copy

This function is only available on POSIX platforms (i.e. not Windows or
Android). This feature is not available in `Worker` threads.

### `process.setgroups(groups)`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * `groups` [<integer[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `process.setgroups()` method sets the supplementary group IDs for the
Node.js process. This is a privileged operation that requires the Node.js
process to have `root` or the `CAP_SETGID` capability.

The `groups` array can contain numeric group IDs, group names, or both.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    if (process.getgroups && process.setgroups) {
      try {
        process.setgroups([501]);
        console.log(process.getgroups()); // new groups
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(`Failed to set groups: ${err}`);
      }
    }const process = require('node:process');
    
    if (process.getgroups && process.setgroups) {
      try {
        process.setgroups([501]);
        console.log(process.getgroups()); // new groups
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(`Failed to set groups: ${err}`);
      }
    }copy

This function is only available on POSIX platforms (i.e. not Windows or
Android). This feature is not available in `Worker` threads.

### `process.setuid(id)`#

Added in: v0.1.28

  * `id` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `process.setuid(id)` method sets the user identity of the process. (See
[`setuid(2)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/setuid.2.html).) The `id`
can be passed as either a numeric ID or a username string. If a username is
specified, the method blocks while resolving the associated numeric ID.

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    if (process.getuid && process.setuid) {
      console.log(`Current uid: ${process.getuid()}`);
      try {
        process.setuid(501);
        console.log(`New uid: ${process.getuid()}`);
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(`Failed to set uid: ${err}`);
      }
    }const process = require('node:process');
    
    if (process.getuid && process.setuid) {
      console.log(`Current uid: ${process.getuid()}`);
      try {
        process.setuid(501);
        console.log(`New uid: ${process.getuid()}`);
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(`Failed to set uid: ${err}`);
      }
    }copy

This function is only available on POSIX platforms (i.e. not Windows or
Android). This feature is not available in `Worker` threads.

### `process.setSourceMapsEnabled(val)`#

Added in: v16.6.0, v14.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental: Use `module.setSourceMapsSupport()` instead.

  * `val` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

This function enables or disables the [Source Map
v3](https://sourcemaps.info/spec.html) support for stack traces.

It provides same features as launching Node.js process with commandline
options `--enable-source-maps`.

Only source maps in JavaScript files that are loaded after source maps has
been enabled will be parsed and loaded.

This implies calling `module.setSourceMapsSupport()` with an option `{
nodeModules: true, generatedCode: true }`.

### `process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback(fn)`#

Added in: v9.3.0

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type)

The `process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback()` function sets a function
that will be invoked when an uncaught exception occurs, which will receive the
exception value itself as its first argument.

If such a function is set, the `'uncaughtException'` event will not be
emitted. If `--abort-on-uncaught-exception` was passed from the command line
or set through `v8.setFlagsFromString()`, the process will not abort. Actions
configured to take place on exceptions such as report generations will be
affected too

To unset the capture function,
`process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback(null)` may be used. Calling this
method with a non-`null` argument while another capture function is set will
throw an error.

Using this function is mutually exclusive with using the deprecated
[`domain`](domain.html) built-in module.

### `process.sourceMapsEnabled`#

Added in: v20.7.0, v18.19.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental: Use `module.getSourceMapsSupport()` instead.

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `process.sourceMapsEnabled` property returns whether the [Source Map
v3](https://sourcemaps.info/spec.html) support for stack traces is enabled.

### `process.stderr`#

  * <Stream>

The `process.stderr` property returns a stream connected to `stderr` (fd `2`).
It is a `net.Socket` (which is a Duplex stream) unless fd `2` refers to a
file, in which case it is a Writable stream.

`process.stderr` differs from other Node.js streams in important ways. See
note on process I/O for more information.

#### `process.stderr.fd`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

This property refers to the value of underlying file descriptor of
`process.stderr`. The value is fixed at `2`. In `Worker` threads, this field
does not exist.

### `process.stdin`#

  * <Stream>

The `process.stdin` property returns a stream connected to `stdin` (fd `0`).
It is a `net.Socket` (which is a Duplex stream) unless fd `0` refers to a
file, in which case it is a Readable stream.

For details of how to read from `stdin` see `readable.read()`.

As a Duplex stream, `process.stdin` can also be used in "old" mode that is
compatible with scripts written for Node.js prior to v0.10. For more
information see Stream compatibility.

In "old" streams mode the `stdin` stream is paused by default, so one must
call `process.stdin.resume()` to read from it. Note also that calling
`process.stdin.resume()` itself would switch stream to "old" mode.

#### `process.stdin.fd`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

This property refers to the value of underlying file descriptor of
`process.stdin`. The value is fixed at `0`. In `Worker` threads, this field
does not exist.

### `process.stdout`#

  * <Stream>

The `process.stdout` property returns a stream connected to `stdout` (fd `1`).
It is a `net.Socket` (which is a Duplex stream) unless fd `1` refers to a
file, in which case it is a Writable stream.

For example, to copy `process.stdin` to `process.stdout`:

    
    
    import { stdin, stdout } from 'node:process';
    
    stdin.pipe(stdout);const { stdin, stdout } = require('node:process');
    
    stdin.pipe(stdout);copy

`process.stdout` differs from other Node.js streams in important ways. See
note on process I/O for more information.

#### `process.stdout.fd`#

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

This property refers to the value of underlying file descriptor of
`process.stdout`. The value is fixed at `1`. In `Worker` threads, this field
does not exist.

#### A note on process I/O#

`process.stdout` and `process.stderr` differ from other Node.js streams in
important ways:

  1. They are used internally by `console.log()` and `console.error()`, respectively.
  2. Writes may be synchronous depending on what the stream is connected to and whether the system is Windows or POSIX: 
     * Files: _synchronous_ on Windows and POSIX
     * TTYs (Terminals): _asynchronous_ on Windows, _synchronous_ on POSIX
     * Pipes (and sockets): _synchronous_ on Windows, _asynchronous_ on POSIX

These behaviors are partly for historical reasons, as changing them would
create backward incompatibility, but they are also expected by some users.

Synchronous writes avoid problems such as output written with `console.log()`
or `console.error()` being unexpectedly interleaved, or not written at all if
`process.exit()` is called before an asynchronous write completes. See
`process.exit()` for more information.

_**Warning**_ : Synchronous writes block the event loop until the write has
completed. This can be near instantaneous in the case of output to a file, but
under high system load, pipes that are not being read at the receiving end, or
with slow terminals or file systems, it's possible for the event loop to be
blocked often enough and long enough to have severe negative performance
impacts. This may not be a problem when writing to an interactive terminal
session, but consider this particularly careful when doing production logging
to the process output streams.

To check if a stream is connected to a TTY context, check the `isTTY`
property.

For instance:

    
    
    $ node -p "Boolean(process.stdin.isTTY)"
    true
    $ echo "foo" | node -p "Boolean(process.stdin.isTTY)"
    false
    $ node -p "Boolean(process.stdout.isTTY)"
    true
    $ node -p "Boolean(process.stdout.isTTY)" | cat
    false copy

See the TTY documentation for more information.

### `process.throwDeprecation`#

Added in: v0.9.12

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The initial value of `process.throwDeprecation` indicates whether the
`--throw-deprecation` flag is set on the current Node.js process.
`process.throwDeprecation` is mutable, so whether or not deprecation warnings
result in errors may be altered at runtime. See the documentation for the
`'warning'` event and the `emitWarning()` method for more information.

    
    
    $ node --throw-deprecation -p "process.throwDeprecation"
    true
    $ node -p "process.throwDeprecation"
    undefined
    $ node
    > process.emitWarning('test', 'DeprecationWarning');
    undefined
    > (node:26598) DeprecationWarning: test
    > process.throwDeprecation = true;
    true
    > process.emitWarning('test', 'DeprecationWarning');
    Thrown:
    [DeprecationWarning: test] { name: 'DeprecationWarning' } copy

### `process.threadCpuUsage([previousValue])`#

Added in: v23.9.0

  * `previousValue` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) A previous return value from calling `process.cpuUsage()`
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `user` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `system` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `process.threadCpuUsage()` method returns the user and system CPU time
usage of the current worker thread, in an object with properties `user` and
`system`, whose values are microsecond values (millionth of a second).

The result of a previous call to `process.threadCpuUsage()` can be passed as
the argument to the function, to get a diff reading.

### `process.title`#

Added in: v0.1.104

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `process.title` property returns the current process title (i.e. returns
the current value of `ps`). Assigning a new value to `process.title` modifies
the current value of `ps`.

When a new value is assigned, different platforms will impose different
maximum length restrictions on the title. Usually such restrictions are quite
limited. For instance, on Linux and macOS, `process.title` is limited to the
size of the binary name plus the length of the command-line arguments because
setting the `process.title` overwrites the `argv` memory of the process.
Node.js v0.8 allowed for longer process title strings by also overwriting the
`environ` memory but that was potentially insecure and confusing in some
(rather obscure) cases.

Assigning a value to `process.title` might not result in an accurate label
within process manager applications such as macOS Activity Monitor or Windows
Services Manager.

### `process.traceDeprecation`#

Added in: v0.8.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `process.traceDeprecation` property indicates whether the `--trace-
deprecation` flag is set on the current Node.js process. See the documentation
for the `'warning'` event and the `emitWarning()` method for more information
about this flag's behavior.

### `process.umask()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0, v12.19.0 | Calling `process.umask()` with no arguments is deprecated.  
v0.1.19 | Added in: v0.1.19  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated. Calling `process.umask()` with no argument causes
the process-wide umask to be written twice. This introduces a race condition
between threads, and is a potential security vulnerability. There is no safe,
cross-platform alternative API.

`process.umask()` returns the Node.js process's file mode creation mask. Child
processes inherit the mask from the parent process.

### `process.umask(mask)`#

Added in: v0.1.19

  * `mask` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

`process.umask(mask)` sets the Node.js process's file mode creation mask.
Child processes inherit the mask from the parent process. Returns the previous
mask.

    
    
    import { umask } from 'node:process';
    
    const newmask = 0o022;
    const oldmask = umask(newmask);
    console.log(
      `Changed umask from ${oldmask.toString(8)} to ${newmask.toString(8)}`,
    );const { umask } = require('node:process');
    
    const newmask = 0o022;
    const oldmask = umask(newmask);
    console.log(
      `Changed umask from ${oldmask.toString(8)} to ${newmask.toString(8)}`,
    );copy

In `Worker` threads, `process.umask(mask)` will throw an exception.

### `process.unref(maybeRefable)`#

Added in: v23.6.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `maybeUnfefable` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) An object that may be "unref'd".

An object is "unrefable" if it implements the Node.js "Refable protocol".
Specifically, this means that the object implements the
`Symbol.for('nodejs.ref')` and `Symbol.for('nodejs.unref')` methods. "Ref'd"
objects will keep the Node.js event loop alive, while "unref'd" objects will
not. Historically, this was implemented by using `ref()` and `unref()` methods
directly on the objects. This pattern, however, is being deprecated in favor
of the "Refable protocol" in order to better support Web Platform API types
whose APIs cannot be modified to add `ref()` and `unref()` methods but still
need to support that behavior.

### `process.uptime()`#

Added in: v0.5.0

  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `process.uptime()` method returns the number of seconds the current
Node.js process has been running.

The return value includes fractions of a second. Use `Math.floor()` to get
whole seconds.

### `process.version`#

Added in: v0.1.3

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `process.version` property contains the Node.js version string.

    
    
    import { version } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(`Version: ${version}`);
    // Version: v14.8.0const { version } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(`Version: ${version}`);
    // Version: v14.8.0copy

To get the version string without the prepended _v_ , use
`process.versions.node`.

### `process.versions`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.0.0 | The `v8` property now includes a Node.js specific suffix.  
v4.2.0 | The `icu` property is now supported.  
v0.2.0 | Added in: v0.2.0  
  
  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The `process.versions` property returns an object listing the version strings
of Node.js and its dependencies. `process.versions.modules` indicates the
current ABI version, which is increased whenever a C++ API changes. Node.js
will refuse to load modules that were compiled against a different module ABI
version.

    
    
    import { versions } from 'node:process';
    
    console.log(versions);const { versions } = require('node:process');
    
    console.log(versions);copy

Will generate an object similar to:

    
    
    { node: '23.0.0',
      acorn: '8.11.3',
      ada: '2.7.8',
      ares: '1.28.1',
      base64: '0.5.2',
      brotli: '1.1.0',
      cjs_module_lexer: '1.2.2',
      cldr: '45.0',
      icu: '75.1',
      llhttp: '9.2.1',
      modules: '127',
      napi: '9',
      nghttp2: '1.61.0',
      nghttp3: '0.7.0',
      ngtcp2: '1.3.0',
      openssl: '3.0.13+quic',
      simdjson: '3.8.0',
      simdutf: '5.2.4',
      sqlite: '3.46.0',
      tz: '2024a',
      undici: '6.13.0',
      unicode: '15.1',
      uv: '1.48.0',
      uvwasi: '0.0.20',
      v8: '12.4.254.14-node.11',
      zlib: '1.3.0.1-motley-7d77fb7' } copy

### Exit codes#

Node.js will normally exit with a `0` status code when no more async
operations are pending. The following status codes are used in other cases:

  * `1` **Uncaught Fatal Exception** : There was an uncaught exception, and it was not handled by a domain or an `'uncaughtException'` event handler.
  * `2`: Unused (reserved by Bash for builtin misuse)
  * `3` **Internal JavaScript Parse Error** : The JavaScript source code internal in the Node.js bootstrapping process caused a parse error. This is extremely rare, and generally can only happen during development of Node.js itself.
  * `4` **Internal JavaScript Evaluation Failure** : The JavaScript source code internal in the Node.js bootstrapping process failed to return a function value when evaluated. This is extremely rare, and generally can only happen during development of Node.js itself.
  * `5` **Fatal Error** : There was a fatal unrecoverable error in V8. Typically a message will be printed to stderr with the prefix `FATAL ERROR`.
  * `6` **Non-function Internal Exception Handler** : There was an uncaught exception, but the internal fatal exception handler function was somehow set to a non-function, and could not be called.
  * `7` **Internal Exception Handler Run-Time Failure** : There was an uncaught exception, and the internal fatal exception handler function itself threw an error while attempting to handle it. This can happen, for example, if an `'uncaughtException'` or `domain.on('error')` handler throws an error.
  * `8`: Unused. In previous versions of Node.js, exit code 8 sometimes indicated an uncaught exception.
  * `9` **Invalid Argument** : Either an unknown option was specified, or an option requiring a value was provided without a value.
  * `10` **Internal JavaScript Run-Time Failure** : The JavaScript source code internal in the Node.js bootstrapping process threw an error when the bootstrapping function was called. This is extremely rare, and generally can only happen during development of Node.js itself.
  * `12` **Invalid Debug Argument** : The `--inspect` and/or `--inspect-brk` options were set, but the port number chosen was invalid or unavailable.
  * `13` **Unsettled Top-Level Await** : `await` was used outside of a function in the top-level code, but the passed `Promise` never settled.
  * `14` **Snapshot Failure** : Node.js was started to build a V8 startup snapshot and it failed because certain requirements of the state of the application were not met.
  * `>128` **Signal Exits** : If Node.js receives a fatal signal such as `SIGKILL` or `SIGHUP`, then its exit code will be `128` plus the value of the signal code. This is a standard POSIX practice, since exit codes are defined to be 7-bit integers, and signal exits set the high-order bit, and then contain the value of the signal code. For example, signal `SIGABRT` has value `6`, so the expected exit code will be `128` \+ `6`, or `134`.

## Punycode#

Deprecated since: v7.0.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated

**Source Code:**
[lib/punycode.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/punycode.js)

**The version of the punycode module bundled in Node.js is being deprecated.**
In a future major version of Node.js this module will be removed. Users
currently depending on the `punycode` module should switch to using the
userland-provided [Punycode.js](https://github.com/bestiejs/punycode.js)
module instead. For punycode-based URL encoding, see `url.domainToASCII` or,
more generally, the WHATWG URL API.

The `punycode` module is a bundled version of the
[Punycode.js](https://github.com/bestiejs/punycode.js) module. It can be
accessed using:

    
    
    const punycode = require('node:punycode'); copy

[Punycode](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3492) is a character encoding scheme
defined by RFC 3492 that is primarily intended for use in Internationalized
Domain Names. Because host names in URLs are limited to ASCII characters only,
Domain Names that contain non-ASCII characters must be converted into ASCII
using the Punycode scheme. For instance, the Japanese character that
translates into the English word, `'example'` is `'例'`. The Internationalized
Domain Name, `'例.com'` (equivalent to `'example.com'`) is represented by
Punycode as the ASCII string `'xn--fsq.com'`.

The `punycode` module provides a simple implementation of the Punycode
standard.

The `punycode` module is a third-party dependency used by Node.js and made
available to developers as a convenience. Fixes or other modifications to the
module must be directed to the
[Punycode.js](https://github.com/bestiejs/punycode.js) project.

### `punycode.decode(string)`#

Added in: v0.5.1

  * `string` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `punycode.decode()` method converts a
[Punycode](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3492) string of ASCII-only
characters to the equivalent string of Unicode codepoints.

    
    
    punycode.decode('maana-pta'); // 'mañana'
    punycode.decode('--dqo34k'); // '☃-⌘' copy

### `punycode.encode(string)`#

Added in: v0.5.1

  * `string` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `punycode.encode()` method converts a string of Unicode codepoints to a
[Punycode](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3492) string of ASCII-only
characters.

    
    
    punycode.encode('mañana'); // 'maana-pta'
    punycode.encode('☃-⌘'); // '--dqo34k' copy

### `punycode.toASCII(domain)`#

Added in: v0.6.1

  * `domain` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `punycode.toASCII()` method converts a Unicode string representing an
Internationalized Domain Name to
[Punycode](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3492). Only the non-ASCII parts of
the domain name will be converted. Calling `punycode.toASCII()` on a string
that already only contains ASCII characters will have no effect.

    
    
    // encode domain names
    punycode.toASCII('mañana.com');  // 'xn--maana-pta.com'
    punycode.toASCII('☃-⌘.com');   // 'xn----dqo34k.com'
    punycode.toASCII('example.com'); // 'example.com' copy

### `punycode.toUnicode(domain)`#

Added in: v0.6.1

  * `domain` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `punycode.toUnicode()` method converts a string representing a domain name
containing [Punycode](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3492) encoded characters
into Unicode. Only the [Punycode](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3492) encoded
parts of the domain name are be converted.

    
    
    // decode domain names
    punycode.toUnicode('xn--maana-pta.com'); // 'mañana.com'
    punycode.toUnicode('xn----dqo34k.com');  // '☃-⌘.com'
    punycode.toUnicode('example.com');       // 'example.com' copy

### `punycode.ucs2`#

Added in: v0.7.0

#### `punycode.ucs2.decode(string)`#

Added in: v0.7.0

  * `string` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `punycode.ucs2.decode()` method returns an array containing the numeric
codepoint values of each Unicode symbol in the string.

    
    
    punycode.ucs2.decode('abc'); // [0x61, 0x62, 0x63]
    // surrogate pair for U+1D306 tetragram for centre:
    punycode.ucs2.decode('\uD834\uDF06'); // [0x1D306] copy

#### `punycode.ucs2.encode(codePoints)`#

Added in: v0.7.0

  * `codePoints` [<integer[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `punycode.ucs2.encode()` method returns a string based on an array of
numeric code point values.

    
    
    punycode.ucs2.encode([0x61, 0x62, 0x63]); // 'abc'
    punycode.ucs2.encode([0x1D306]); // '\uD834\uDF06' copy

### `punycode.version`#

Added in: v0.6.1

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns a string identifying the current
[Punycode.js](https://github.com/bestiejs/punycode.js) version number.

## Query string#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/querystring.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/querystring.js)

The `node:querystring` module provides utilities for parsing and formatting
URL query strings. It can be accessed using:

    
    
    const querystring = require('node:querystring'); copy

`querystring` is more performant than <URLSearchParams> but is not a
standardized API. Use <URLSearchParams> when performance is not critical or
when compatibility with browser code is desirable.

### `querystring.decode()`#

Added in: v0.1.99

The `querystring.decode()` function is an alias for `querystring.parse()`.

### `querystring.encode()`#

Added in: v0.1.99

The `querystring.encode()` function is an alias for `querystring.stringify()`.

### `querystring.escape(str)`#

Added in: v0.1.25

  * `str` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `querystring.escape()` method performs URL percent-encoding on the given
`str` in a manner that is optimized for the specific requirements of URL query
strings.

The `querystring.escape()` method is used by `querystring.stringify()` and is
generally not expected to be used directly. It is exported primarily to allow
application code to provide a replacement percent-encoding implementation if
necessary by assigning `querystring.escape` to an alternative function.

### `querystring.parse(str[, sep[, eq[, options]]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | Multiple empty entries are now parsed correctly (e.g. `&=&=`).  
v6.0.0 | The returned object no longer inherits from `Object.prototype`.  
v6.0.0, v4.2.4 | The `eq` parameter may now have a length of more than `1`.  
v0.1.25 | Added in: v0.1.25  
  
  * `str` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The URL query string to parse
  * `sep` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The substring used to delimit key and value pairs in the query string. **Default:** `'&'`.
  * `eq` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type). The substring used to delimit keys and values in the query string. **Default:** `'='`.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `decodeURIComponent` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The function to use when decoding percent-encoded characters in the query string. **Default:** `querystring.unescape()`.
    * `maxKeys` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the maximum number of keys to parse. Specify `0` to remove key counting limitations. **Default:** `1000`.

The `querystring.parse()` method parses a URL query string (`str`) into a
collection of key and value pairs.

For example, the query string `'foo=bar&abc=xyz&abc=123'` is parsed into:

    
    
    {
      "foo": "bar",
      "abc": ["xyz", "123"]
    } copy

The object returned by the `querystring.parse()` method _does not_
prototypically inherit from the JavaScript `Object`. This means that typical
`Object` methods such as `obj.toString()`, `obj.hasOwnProperty()`, and others
are not defined and _will not work_.

By default, percent-encoded characters within the query string will be assumed
to use UTF-8 encoding. If an alternative character encoding is used, then an
alternative `decodeURIComponent` option will need to be specified:

    
    
    // Assuming gbkDecodeURIComponent function already exists...
    
    querystring.parse('w=%D6%D0%CE%C4&foo=bar', null, null,
                      { decodeURIComponent: gbkDecodeURIComponent }); copy

### `querystring.stringify(obj[, sep[, eq[, options]]])`#

Added in: v0.1.25

  * `obj` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The object to serialize into a URL query string
  * `sep` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The substring used to delimit key and value pairs in the query string. **Default:** `'&'`.
  * `eq` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type). The substring used to delimit keys and values in the query string. **Default:** `'='`.
  * `options`
    * `encodeURIComponent` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The function to use when converting URL-unsafe characters to percent-encoding in the query string. **Default:** `querystring.escape()`.

The `querystring.stringify()` method produces a URL query string from a given
`obj` by iterating through the object's "own properties".

It serializes the following types of values passed in `obj`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) | [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<number[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) | [<boolean[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) The numeric values must be finite. Any other input values will be coerced to empty strings.
    
    
    querystring.stringify({ foo: 'bar', baz: ['qux', 'quux'], corge: '' });
    // Returns 'foo=bar&baz=qux&baz=quux&corge='
    
    querystring.stringify({ foo: 'bar', baz: 'qux' }, ';', ':');
    // Returns 'foo:bar;baz:qux' copy

By default, characters requiring percent-encoding within the query string will
be encoded as UTF-8. If an alternative encoding is required, then an
alternative `encodeURIComponent` option will need to be specified:

    
    
    // Assuming gbkEncodeURIComponent function already exists,
    
    querystring.stringify({ w: '中文', foo: 'bar' }, null, null,
                          { encodeURIComponent: gbkEncodeURIComponent }); copy

### `querystring.unescape(str)`#

Added in: v0.1.25

  * `str` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `querystring.unescape()` method performs decoding of URL percent-encoded
characters on the given `str`.

The `querystring.unescape()` method is used by `querystring.parse()` and is
generally not expected to be used directly. It is exported primarily to allow
application code to provide a replacement decoding implementation if necessary
by assigning `querystring.unescape` to an alternative function.

By default, the `querystring.unescape()` method will attempt to use the
JavaScript built-in `decodeURIComponent()` method to decode. If that fails, a
safer equivalent that does not throw on malformed URLs will be used.

## Readline#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/readline.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/readline.js)

The `node:readline` module provides an interface for reading data from a
Readable stream (such as `process.stdin`) one line at a time.

To use the promise-based APIs:

    
    
    import * as readline from 'node:readline/promises';const readline = require('node:readline/promises');copy

To use the callback and sync APIs:

    
    
    import * as readline from 'node:readline';const readline = require('node:readline');copy

The following simple example illustrates the basic use of the `node:readline`
module.

    
    
    import * as readline from 'node:readline/promises';
    import { stdin as input, stdout as output } from 'node:process';
    
    const rl = readline.createInterface({ input, output });
    
    const answer = await rl.question('What do you think of Node.js? ');
    
    console.log(`Thank you for your valuable feedback: ${answer}`);
    
    rl.close();const readline = require('node:readline');
    const { stdin: input, stdout: output } = require('node:process');
    
    const rl = readline.createInterface({ input, output });
    
    rl.question('What do you think of Node.js? ', (answer) => {
      // TODO: Log the answer in a database
      console.log(`Thank you for your valuable feedback: ${answer}`);
    
      rl.close();
    });copy

Once this code is invoked, the Node.js application will not terminate until
the `readline.Interface` is closed because the interface waits for data to be
received on the `input` stream.

### Class: `InterfaceConstructor`#

Added in: v0.1.104

  * Extends: <EventEmitter>

Instances of the `InterfaceConstructor` class are constructed using the
`readlinePromises.createInterface()` or `readline.createInterface()` method.
Every instance is associated with a single `input` Readable stream and a
single `output` Writable stream. The `output` stream is used to print prompts
for user input that arrives on, and is read from, the `input` stream.

#### Event: `'close'`#

Added in: v0.1.98

The `'close'` event is emitted when one of the following occur:

  * The `rl.close()` method is called and the `InterfaceConstructor` instance has relinquished control over the `input` and `output` streams;
  * The `input` stream receives its `'end'` event;
  * The `input` stream receives `Ctrl`+`D` to signal end-of-transmission (EOT);
  * The `input` stream receives `Ctrl`+`C` to signal `SIGINT` and there is no `'SIGINT'` event listener registered on the `InterfaceConstructor` instance.

The listener function is called without passing any arguments.

The `InterfaceConstructor` instance is finished once the `'close'` event is
emitted.

#### Event: `'line'`#

Added in: v0.1.98

The `'line'` event is emitted whenever the `input` stream receives an end-of-
line input (`\n`, `\r`, or `\r\n`). This usually occurs when the user presses
`Enter` or `Return`.

The `'line'` event is also emitted if new data has been read from a stream and
that stream ends without a final end-of-line marker.

The listener function is called with a string containing the single line of
received input.

    
    
    rl.on('line', (input) => {
      console.log(`Received: ${input}`);
    }); copy

#### Event: `'history'`#

Added in: v15.8.0, v14.18.0

The `'history'` event is emitted whenever the history array has changed.

The listener function is called with an array containing the history array. It
will reflect all changes, added lines and removed lines due to `historySize`
and `removeHistoryDuplicates`.

The primary purpose is to allow a listener to persist the history. It is also
possible for the listener to change the history object. This could be useful
to prevent certain lines to be added to the history, like a password.

    
    
    rl.on('history', (history) => {
      console.log(`Received: ${history}`);
    }); copy

#### Event: `'pause'`#

Added in: v0.7.5

The `'pause'` event is emitted when one of the following occur:

  * The `input` stream is paused.
  * The `input` stream is not paused and receives the `'SIGCONT'` event. (See events `'SIGTSTP'` and `'SIGCONT'`.)

The listener function is called without passing any arguments.

    
    
    rl.on('pause', () => {
      console.log('Readline paused.');
    }); copy

#### Event: `'resume'`#

Added in: v0.7.5

The `'resume'` event is emitted whenever the `input` stream is resumed.

The listener function is called without passing any arguments.

    
    
    rl.on('resume', () => {
      console.log('Readline resumed.');
    }); copy

#### Event: `'SIGCONT'`#

Added in: v0.7.5

The `'SIGCONT'` event is emitted when a Node.js process previously moved into
the background using `Ctrl`+`Z` (i.e. `SIGTSTP`) is then brought back to the
foreground using [`fg(1p)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/fg.1p.html).

If the `input` stream was paused _before_ the `SIGTSTP` request, this event
will not be emitted.

The listener function is invoked without passing any arguments.

    
    
    rl.on('SIGCONT', () => {
      // `prompt` will automatically resume the stream
      rl.prompt();
    }); copy

The `'SIGCONT'` event is _not_ supported on Windows.

#### Event: `'SIGINT'`#

Added in: v0.3.0

The `'SIGINT'` event is emitted whenever the `input` stream receives a
`Ctrl+C` input, known typically as `SIGINT`. If there are no `'SIGINT'` event
listeners registered when the `input` stream receives a `SIGINT`, the
`'pause'` event will be emitted.

The listener function is invoked without passing any arguments.

    
    
    rl.on('SIGINT', () => {
      rl.question('Are you sure you want to exit? ', (answer) => {
        if (answer.match(/^y(es)?$/i)) rl.pause();
      });
    }); copy

#### Event: `'SIGTSTP'`#

Added in: v0.7.5

The `'SIGTSTP'` event is emitted when the `input` stream receives a `Ctrl`+`Z`
input, typically known as `SIGTSTP`. If there are no `'SIGTSTP'` event
listeners registered when the `input` stream receives a `SIGTSTP`, the Node.js
process will be sent to the background.

When the program is resumed using [`fg(1p)`](http://man7.org/linux/man-
pages/man1/fg.1p.html), the `'pause'` and `'SIGCONT'` events will be emitted.
These can be used to resume the `input` stream.

The `'pause'` and `'SIGCONT'` events will not be emitted if the `input` was
paused before the process was sent to the background.

The listener function is invoked without passing any arguments.

    
    
    rl.on('SIGTSTP', () => {
      // This will override SIGTSTP and prevent the program from going to the
      // background.
      console.log('Caught SIGTSTP.');
    }); copy

The `'SIGTSTP'` event is _not_ supported on Windows.

#### `rl.close()`#

Added in: v0.1.98

The `rl.close()` method closes the `InterfaceConstructor` instance and
relinquishes control over the `input` and `output` streams. When called, the
`'close'` event will be emitted.

Calling `rl.close()` does not immediately stop other events (including
`'line'`) from being emitted by the `InterfaceConstructor` instance.

#### `rl[Symbol.dispose]()`#

Added in: v23.10.0

Alias for `rl.close()`.

#### `rl.pause()`#

Added in: v0.3.4

The `rl.pause()` method pauses the `input` stream, allowing it to be resumed
later if necessary.

Calling `rl.pause()` does not immediately pause other events (including
`'line'`) from being emitted by the `InterfaceConstructor` instance.

#### `rl.prompt([preserveCursor])`#

Added in: v0.1.98

  * `preserveCursor` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, prevents the cursor placement from being reset to `0`.

The `rl.prompt()` method writes the `InterfaceConstructor` instances
configured `prompt` to a new line in `output` in order to provide a user with
a new location at which to provide input.

When called, `rl.prompt()` will resume the `input` stream if it has been
paused.

If the `InterfaceConstructor` was created with `output` set to `null` or
`undefined` the prompt is not written.

#### `rl.resume()`#

Added in: v0.3.4

The `rl.resume()` method resumes the `input` stream if it has been paused.

#### `rl.setPrompt(prompt)`#

Added in: v0.1.98

  * `prompt` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `rl.setPrompt()` method sets the prompt that will be written to `output`
whenever `rl.prompt()` is called.

#### `rl.getPrompt()`#

Added in: v15.3.0, v14.17.0

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) the current prompt string

The `rl.getPrompt()` method returns the current prompt used by `rl.prompt()`.

#### `rl.write(data[, key])`#

Added in: v0.1.98

  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `key` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `ctrl` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` to indicate the `Ctrl` key.
    * `meta` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` to indicate the `Meta` key.
    * `shift` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` to indicate the `Shift` key.
    * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The name of the a key.

The `rl.write()` method will write either `data` or a key sequence identified
by `key` to the `output`. The `key` argument is supported only if `output` is
a [TTY](tty.html) text terminal. See TTY keybindings for a list of key
combinations.

If `key` is specified, `data` is ignored.

When called, `rl.write()` will resume the `input` stream if it has been
paused.

If the `InterfaceConstructor` was created with `output` set to `null` or
`undefined` the `data` and `key` are not written.

    
    
    rl.write('Delete this!');
    // Simulate Ctrl+U to delete the line written previously
    rl.write(null, { ctrl: true, name: 'u' }); copy

The `rl.write()` method will write the data to the `readline` `Interface`'s
`input` _as if it were provided by the user_.

#### `rl[Symbol.asyncIterator]()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.14.0, v10.17.0 | Symbol.asyncIterator support is no longer experimental.  
v11.4.0, v10.16.0 | Added in: v11.4.0, v10.16.0  
  
  * Returns: [<AsyncIterator>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterator-interface)

Create an `AsyncIterator` object that iterates through each line in the input
stream as a string. This method allows asynchronous iteration of
`InterfaceConstructor` objects through `for await...of` loops.

Errors in the input stream are not forwarded.

If the loop is terminated with `break`, `throw`, or `return`, `rl.close()`
will be called. In other words, iterating over a `InterfaceConstructor` will
always consume the input stream fully.

Performance is not on par with the traditional `'line'` event API. Use
`'line'` instead for performance-sensitive applications.

    
    
    async function processLineByLine() {
      const rl = readline.createInterface({
        // ...
      });
    
      for await (const line of rl) {
        // Each line in the readline input will be successively available here as
        // `line`.
      }
    } copy

`readline.createInterface()` will start to consume the input stream once
invoked. Having asynchronous operations between interface creation and
asynchronous iteration may result in missed lines.

#### `rl.line`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.8.0, v14.18.0 | Value will always be a string, never undefined.  
v0.1.98 | Added in: v0.1.98  
  
  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The current input data being processed by node.

This can be used when collecting input from a TTY stream to retrieve the
current value that has been processed thus far, prior to the `line` event
being emitted. Once the `line` event has been emitted, this property will be
an empty string.

Be aware that modifying the value during the instance runtime may have
unintended consequences if `rl.cursor` is not also controlled.

**If not using a TTY stream for input, use the`'line'` event.**

One possible use case would be as follows:

    
    
    const values = ['lorem ipsum', 'dolor sit amet'];
    const rl = readline.createInterface(process.stdin);
    const showResults = debounce(() => {
      console.log(
        '\n',
        values.filter((val) => val.startsWith(rl.line)).join(' '),
      );
    }, 300);
    process.stdin.on('keypress', (c, k) => {
      showResults();
    }); copy

#### `rl.cursor`#

Added in: v0.1.98

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

The cursor position relative to `rl.line`.

This will track where the current cursor lands in the input string, when
reading input from a TTY stream. The position of cursor determines the portion
of the input string that will be modified as input is processed, as well as
the column where the terminal caret will be rendered.

#### `rl.getCursorPos()`#

Added in: v13.5.0, v12.16.0

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `rows` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the row of the prompt the cursor currently lands on
    * `cols` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the screen column the cursor currently lands on

Returns the real position of the cursor in relation to the input prompt +
string. Long input (wrapping) strings, as well as multiple line prompts are
included in the calculations.

### Promises API#

Added in: v17.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

#### Class: `readlinePromises.Interface`#

Added in: v17.0.0

  * Extends: <readline.InterfaceConstructor>

Instances of the `readlinePromises.Interface` class are constructed using the
`readlinePromises.createInterface()` method. Every instance is associated with
a single `input` Readable stream and a single `output` Writable stream. The
`output` stream is used to print prompts for user input that arrives on, and
is read from, the `input` stream.

##### `rl.question(query[, options])`#

Added in: v17.0.0

  * `query` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A statement or query to write to `output`, prepended to the prompt.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Optionally allows the `question()` to be canceled using an `AbortSignal`.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) A promise that is fulfilled with the user's input in response to the `query`.

The `rl.question()` method displays the `query` by writing it to the `output`,
waits for user input to be provided on `input`, then invokes the `callback`
function passing the provided input as the first argument.

When called, `rl.question()` will resume the `input` stream if it has been
paused.

If the `readlinePromises.Interface` was created with `output` set to `null` or
`undefined` the `query` is not written.

If the question is called after `rl.close()`, it returns a rejected promise.

Example usage:

    
    
    const answer = await rl.question('What is your favorite food? ');
    console.log(`Oh, so your favorite food is ${answer}`); copy

Using an `AbortSignal` to cancel a question.

    
    
    const signal = AbortSignal.timeout(10_000);
    
    signal.addEventListener('abort', () => {
      console.log('The food question timed out');
    }, { once: true });
    
    const answer = await rl.question('What is your favorite food? ', { signal });
    console.log(`Oh, so your favorite food is ${answer}`); copy

#### Class: `readlinePromises.Readline`#

Added in: v17.0.0

##### `new readlinePromises.Readline(stream[, options])`#

Added in: v17.0.0

  * `stream` <stream.Writable> A [TTY](tty.html) stream.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `autoCommit` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, no need to call `rl.commit()`.

##### `rl.clearLine(dir)`#

Added in: v17.0.0

  * `dir` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `-1`: to the left from cursor
    * `1`: to the right from cursor
    * `0`: the entire line
  * Returns: this

The `rl.clearLine()` method adds to the internal list of pending action an
action that clears current line of the associated `stream` in a specified
direction identified by `dir`. Call `rl.commit()` to see the effect of this
method, unless `autoCommit: true` was passed to the constructor.

##### `rl.clearScreenDown()`#

Added in: v17.0.0

  * Returns: this

The `rl.clearScreenDown()` method adds to the internal list of pending action
an action that clears the associated stream from the current position of the
cursor down. Call `rl.commit()` to see the effect of this method, unless
`autoCommit: true` was passed to the constructor.

##### `rl.commit()`#

Added in: v17.0.0

  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

The `rl.commit()` method sends all the pending actions to the associated
`stream` and clears the internal list of pending actions.

##### `rl.cursorTo(x[, y])`#

Added in: v17.0.0

  * `x` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `y` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * Returns: this

The `rl.cursorTo()` method adds to the internal list of pending action an
action that moves cursor to the specified position in the associated `stream`.
Call `rl.commit()` to see the effect of this method, unless `autoCommit: true`
was passed to the constructor.

##### `rl.moveCursor(dx, dy)`#

Added in: v17.0.0

  * `dx` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `dy` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * Returns: this

The `rl.moveCursor()` method adds to the internal list of pending action an
action that moves the cursor _relative_ to its current position in the
associated `stream`. Call `rl.commit()` to see the effect of this method,
unless `autoCommit: true` was passed to the constructor.

##### `rl.rollback()`#

Added in: v17.0.0

  * Returns: this

The `rl.rollback` methods clears the internal list of pending actions without
sending it to the associated `stream`.

#### `readlinePromises.createInterface(options)`#

Added in: v17.0.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `input` <stream.Readable> The Readable stream to listen to. This option is _required_.
    * `output` <stream.Writable> The Writable stream to write readline data to.
    * `completer` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) An optional function used for Tab autocompletion.
    * `terminal` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the `input` and `output` streams should be treated like a TTY, and have ANSI/VT100 escape codes written to it. **Default:** checking `isTTY` on the `output` stream upon instantiation.
    * `history` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Initial list of history lines. This option makes sense only if `terminal` is set to `true` by the user or by an internal `output` check, otherwise the history caching mechanism is not initialized at all. **Default:** `[]`.
    * `historySize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Maximum number of history lines retained. To disable the history set this value to `0`. This option makes sense only if `terminal` is set to `true` by the user or by an internal `output` check, otherwise the history caching mechanism is not initialized at all. **Default:** `30`.
    * `removeHistoryDuplicates` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, when a new input line added to the history list duplicates an older one, this removes the older line from the list. **Default:** `false`.
    * `prompt` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The prompt string to use. **Default:** `'> '`.
    * `crlfDelay` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) If the delay between `\r` and `\n` exceeds `crlfDelay` milliseconds, both `\r` and `\n` will be treated as separate end-of-line input. `crlfDelay` will be coerced to a number no less than `100`. It can be set to `Infinity`, in which case `\r` followed by `\n` will always be considered a single newline (which may be reasonable for reading files with `\r\n` line delimiter). **Default:** `100`.
    * `escapeCodeTimeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The duration `readlinePromises` will wait for a character (when reading an ambiguous key sequence in milliseconds one that can both form a complete key sequence using the input read so far and can take additional input to complete a longer key sequence). **Default:** `500`.
    * `tabSize` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of spaces a tab is equal to (minimum 1). **Default:** `8`.
  * Returns: <readlinePromises.Interface>

The `readlinePromises.createInterface()` method creates a new
`readlinePromises.Interface` instance.

    
    
    import { createInterface } from 'node:readline/promises';
    import { stdin, stdout } from 'node:process';
    const rl = createInterface({
      input: stdin,
      output: stdout,
    });const { createInterface } = require('node:readline/promises');
    const rl = createInterface({
      input: process.stdin,
      output: process.stdout,
    });copy

Once the `readlinePromises.Interface` instance is created, the most common
case is to listen for the `'line'` event:

    
    
    rl.on('line', (line) => {
      console.log(`Received: ${line}`);
    }); copy

If `terminal` is `true` for this instance then the `output` stream will get
the best compatibility if it defines an `output.columns` property and emits a
`'resize'` event on the `output` if or when the columns ever change
(`process.stdout` does this automatically when it is a TTY).

##### Use of the `completer` function#

The `completer` function takes the current line entered by the user as an
argument, and returns an `Array` with 2 entries:

  * An `Array` with matching entries for the completion.
  * The substring that was used for the matching.

For instance: `[[substr1, substr2, ...], originalsubstring]`.

    
    
    function completer(line) {
      const completions = '.help .error .exit .quit .q'.split(' ');
      const hits = completions.filter((c) => c.startsWith(line));
      // Show all completions if none found
      return [hits.length ? hits : completions, line];
    } copy

The `completer` function can also return a
[<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise), or be asynchronous:

    
    
    async function completer(linePartial) {
      await someAsyncWork();
      return [['123'], linePartial];
    } copy

### Callback API#

Added in: v0.1.104

#### Class: `readline.Interface`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.0.0 | The class `readline.Interface` now inherits from `Interface`.  
v0.1.104 | Added in: v0.1.104  
  
  * Extends: <readline.InterfaceConstructor>

Instances of the `readline.Interface` class are constructed using the
`readline.createInterface()` method. Every instance is associated with a
single `input` Readable stream and a single `output` Writable stream. The
`output` stream is used to print prompts for user input that arrives on, and
is read from, the `input` stream.

##### `rl.question(query[, options], callback)`#

Added in: v0.3.3

  * `query` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A statement or query to write to `output`, prepended to the prompt.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Optionally allows the `question()` to be canceled using an `AbortController`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A callback function that is invoked with the user's input in response to the `query`.

The `rl.question()` method displays the `query` by writing it to the `output`,
waits for user input to be provided on `input`, then invokes the `callback`
function passing the provided input as the first argument.

When called, `rl.question()` will resume the `input` stream if it has been
paused.

If the `readline.Interface` was created with `output` set to `null` or
`undefined` the `query` is not written.

The `callback` function passed to `rl.question()` does not follow the typical
pattern of accepting an `Error` object or `null` as the first argument. The
`callback` is called with the provided answer as the only argument.

An error will be thrown if calling `rl.question()` after `rl.close()`.

Example usage:

    
    
    rl.question('What is your favorite food? ', (answer) => {
      console.log(`Oh, so your favorite food is ${answer}`);
    }); copy

Using an `AbortController` to cancel a question.

    
    
    const ac = new AbortController();
    const signal = ac.signal;
    
    rl.question('What is your favorite food? ', { signal }, (answer) => {
      console.log(`Oh, so your favorite food is ${answer}`);
    });
    
    signal.addEventListener('abort', () => {
      console.log('The food question timed out');
    }, { once: true });
    
    setTimeout(() => ac.abort(), 10000); copy

#### `readline.clearLine(stream, dir[, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v12.7.0 | The stream's write() callback and return value are exposed.  
v0.7.7 | Added in: v0.7.7  
  
  * `stream` <stream.Writable>
  * `dir` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `-1`: to the left from cursor
    * `1`: to the right from cursor
    * `0`: the entire line
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Invoked once the operation completes.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `false` if `stream` wishes for the calling code to wait for the `'drain'` event to be emitted before continuing to write additional data; otherwise `true`.

The `readline.clearLine()` method clears current line of given [TTY](tty.html)
stream in a specified direction identified by `dir`.

#### `readline.clearScreenDown(stream[, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v12.7.0 | The stream's write() callback and return value are exposed.  
v0.7.7 | Added in: v0.7.7  
  
  * `stream` <stream.Writable>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Invoked once the operation completes.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `false` if `stream` wishes for the calling code to wait for the `'drain'` event to be emitted before continuing to write additional data; otherwise `true`.

The `readline.clearScreenDown()` method clears the given [TTY](tty.html)
stream from the current position of the cursor down.

#### `readline.createInterface(options)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.14.0, v14.18.0 | The `signal` option is supported now.  
v15.8.0, v14.18.0 | The `history` option is supported now.  
v13.9.0 | The `tabSize` option is supported now.  
v8.3.0, v6.11.4 | Remove max limit of `crlfDelay` option.  
v6.6.0 | The `crlfDelay` option is supported now.  
v6.3.0 | The `prompt` option is supported now.  
v6.0.0 | The `historySize` option can be `0` now.  
v0.1.98 | Added in: v0.1.98  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `input` <stream.Readable> The Readable stream to listen to. This option is _required_.
    * `output` <stream.Writable> The Writable stream to write readline data to.
    * `completer` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) An optional function used for Tab autocompletion.
    * `terminal` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the `input` and `output` streams should be treated like a TTY, and have ANSI/VT100 escape codes written to it. **Default:** checking `isTTY` on the `output` stream upon instantiation.
    * `history` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Initial list of history lines. This option makes sense only if `terminal` is set to `true` by the user or by an internal `output` check, otherwise the history caching mechanism is not initialized at all. **Default:** `[]`.
    * `historySize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Maximum number of history lines retained. To disable the history set this value to `0`. This option makes sense only if `terminal` is set to `true` by the user or by an internal `output` check, otherwise the history caching mechanism is not initialized at all. **Default:** `30`.
    * `removeHistoryDuplicates` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, when a new input line added to the history list duplicates an older one, this removes the older line from the list. **Default:** `false`.
    * `prompt` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The prompt string to use. **Default:** `'> '`.
    * `crlfDelay` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) If the delay between `\r` and `\n` exceeds `crlfDelay` milliseconds, both `\r` and `\n` will be treated as separate end-of-line input. `crlfDelay` will be coerced to a number no less than `100`. It can be set to `Infinity`, in which case `\r` followed by `\n` will always be considered a single newline (which may be reasonable for reading files with `\r\n` line delimiter). **Default:** `100`.
    * `escapeCodeTimeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The duration `readline` will wait for a character (when reading an ambiguous key sequence in milliseconds one that can both form a complete key sequence using the input read so far and can take additional input to complete a longer key sequence). **Default:** `500`.
    * `tabSize` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of spaces a tab is equal to (minimum 1). **Default:** `8`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Allows closing the interface using an AbortSignal. Aborting the signal will internally call `close` on the interface.
  * Returns: <readline.Interface>

The `readline.createInterface()` method creates a new `readline.Interface`
instance.

    
    
    import { createInterface } from 'node:readline';
    import { stdin, stdout } from 'node:process';
    const rl = createInterface({
      input: stdin,
      output: stdout,
    });const { createInterface } = require('node:readline');
    const rl = createInterface({
      input: process.stdin,
      output: process.stdout,
    });copy

Once the `readline.Interface` instance is created, the most common case is to
listen for the `'line'` event:

    
    
    rl.on('line', (line) => {
      console.log(`Received: ${line}`);
    }); copy

If `terminal` is `true` for this instance then the `output` stream will get
the best compatibility if it defines an `output.columns` property and emits a
`'resize'` event on the `output` if or when the columns ever change
(`process.stdout` does this automatically when it is a TTY).

When creating a `readline.Interface` using `stdin` as input, the program will
not terminate until it receives an [EOF
character](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/End-of-file#EOF_character). To exit
without waiting for user input, call `process.stdin.unref()`.

##### Use of the `completer` function#

The `completer` function takes the current line entered by the user as an
argument, and returns an `Array` with 2 entries:

  * An `Array` with matching entries for the completion.
  * The substring that was used for the matching.

For instance: `[[substr1, substr2, ...], originalsubstring]`.

    
    
    function completer(line) {
      const completions = '.help .error .exit .quit .q'.split(' ');
      const hits = completions.filter((c) => c.startsWith(line));
      // Show all completions if none found
      return [hits.length ? hits : completions, line];
    } copy

The `completer` function can be called asynchronously if it accepts two
arguments:

    
    
    function completer(linePartial, callback) {
      callback(null, [['123'], linePartial]);
    } copy

#### `readline.cursorTo(stream, x[, y][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v12.7.0 | The stream's write() callback and return value are exposed.  
v0.7.7 | Added in: v0.7.7  
  
  * `stream` <stream.Writable>
  * `x` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `y` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Invoked once the operation completes.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `false` if `stream` wishes for the calling code to wait for the `'drain'` event to be emitted before continuing to write additional data; otherwise `true`.

The `readline.cursorTo()` method moves cursor to the specified position in a
given [TTY](tty.html) `stream`.

#### `readline.moveCursor(stream, dx, dy[, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v12.7.0 | The stream's write() callback and return value are exposed.  
v0.7.7 | Added in: v0.7.7  
  
  * `stream` <stream.Writable>
  * `dx` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `dy` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Invoked once the operation completes.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `false` if `stream` wishes for the calling code to wait for the `'drain'` event to be emitted before continuing to write additional data; otherwise `true`.

The `readline.moveCursor()` method moves the cursor _relative_ to its current
position in a given [TTY](tty.html) `stream`.

### `readline.emitKeypressEvents(stream[, interface])`#

Added in: v0.7.7

  * `stream` <stream.Readable>
  * `interface` <readline.InterfaceConstructor>

The `readline.emitKeypressEvents()` method causes the given Readable stream to
begin emitting `'keypress'` events corresponding to received input.

Optionally, `interface` specifies a `readline.Interface` instance for which
autocompletion is disabled when copy-pasted input is detected.

If the `stream` is a [TTY](tty.html), then it must be in raw mode.

This is automatically called by any readline instance on its `input` if the
`input` is a terminal. Closing the `readline` instance does not stop the
`input` from emitting `'keypress'` events.

    
    
    readline.emitKeypressEvents(process.stdin);
    if (process.stdin.isTTY)
      process.stdin.setRawMode(true); copy

### Example: Tiny CLI#

The following example illustrates the use of `readline.Interface` class to
implement a small command-line interface:

    
    
    import { createInterface } from 'node:readline';
    import { exit, stdin, stdout } from 'node:process';
    const rl = createInterface({
      input: stdin,
      output: stdout,
      prompt: 'OHAI> ',
    });
    
    rl.prompt();
    
    rl.on('line', (line) => {
      switch (line.trim()) {
        case 'hello':
          console.log('world!');
          break;
        default:
          console.log(`Say what? I might have heard '${line.trim()}'`);
          break;
      }
      rl.prompt();
    }).on('close', () => {
      console.log('Have a great day!');
      exit(0);
    });const { createInterface } = require('node:readline');
    const rl = createInterface({
      input: process.stdin,
      output: process.stdout,
      prompt: 'OHAI> ',
    });
    
    rl.prompt();
    
    rl.on('line', (line) => {
      switch (line.trim()) {
        case 'hello':
          console.log('world!');
          break;
        default:
          console.log(`Say what? I might have heard '${line.trim()}'`);
          break;
      }
      rl.prompt();
    }).on('close', () => {
      console.log('Have a great day!');
      process.exit(0);
    });copy

### Example: Read file stream line-by-Line#

A common use case for `readline` is to consume an input file one line at a
time. The easiest way to do so is leveraging the `fs.ReadStream` API as well
as a `for await...of` loop:

    
    
    import { createReadStream } from 'node:fs';
    import { createInterface } from 'node:readline';
    
    async function processLineByLine() {
      const fileStream = createReadStream('input.txt');
    
      const rl = createInterface({
        input: fileStream,
        crlfDelay: Infinity,
      });
      // Note: we use the crlfDelay option to recognize all instances of CR LF
      // ('\r\n') in input.txt as a single line break.
    
      for await (const line of rl) {
        // Each line in input.txt will be successively available here as `line`.
        console.log(`Line from file: ${line}`);
      }
    }
    
    processLineByLine();const { createReadStream } = require('node:fs');
    const { createInterface } = require('node:readline');
    
    async function processLineByLine() {
      const fileStream = createReadStream('input.txt');
    
      const rl = createInterface({
        input: fileStream,
        crlfDelay: Infinity,
      });
      // Note: we use the crlfDelay option to recognize all instances of CR LF
      // ('\r\n') in input.txt as a single line break.
    
      for await (const line of rl) {
        // Each line in input.txt will be successively available here as `line`.
        console.log(`Line from file: ${line}`);
      }
    }
    
    processLineByLine();copy

Alternatively, one could use the `'line'` event:

    
    
    import { createReadStream } from 'node:fs';
    import { createInterface } from 'node:readline';
    
    const rl = createInterface({
      input: createReadStream('sample.txt'),
      crlfDelay: Infinity,
    });
    
    rl.on('line', (line) => {
      console.log(`Line from file: ${line}`);
    });const { createReadStream } = require('node:fs');
    const { createInterface } = require('node:readline');
    
    const rl = createInterface({
      input: createReadStream('sample.txt'),
      crlfDelay: Infinity,
    });
    
    rl.on('line', (line) => {
      console.log(`Line from file: ${line}`);
    });copy

Currently, `for await...of` loop can be a bit slower. If `async` / `await`
flow and speed are both essential, a mixed approach can be applied:

    
    
    import { once } from 'node:events';
    import { createReadStream } from 'node:fs';
    import { createInterface } from 'node:readline';
    
    (async function processLineByLine() {
      try {
        const rl = createInterface({
          input: createReadStream('big-file.txt'),
          crlfDelay: Infinity,
        });
    
        rl.on('line', (line) => {
          // Process the line.
        });
    
        await once(rl, 'close');
    
        console.log('File processed.');
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(err);
      }
    })();const { once } = require('node:events');
    const { createReadStream } = require('node:fs');
    const { createInterface } = require('node:readline');
    
    (async function processLineByLine() {
      try {
        const rl = createInterface({
          input: createReadStream('big-file.txt'),
          crlfDelay: Infinity,
        });
    
        rl.on('line', (line) => {
          // Process the line.
        });
    
        await once(rl, 'close');
    
        console.log('File processed.');
      } catch (err) {
        console.error(err);
      }
    })();copy

### TTY keybindings#

Keybindings | Description | Notes  
---|---|---  
`Ctrl`+`Shift`+`Backspace` | Delete line left | Doesn't work on Linux, Mac and Windows  
`Ctrl`+`Shift`+`Delete` | Delete line right | Doesn't work on Mac  
`Ctrl`+`C` | Emit `SIGINT` or close the readline instance |   
`Ctrl`+`H` | Delete left |   
`Ctrl`+`D` | Delete right or close the readline instance in case the current line is empty / EOF | Doesn't work on Windows  
`Ctrl`+`U` | Delete from the current position to the line start |   
`Ctrl`+`K` | Delete from the current position to the end of line |   
`Ctrl`+`Y` | Yank (Recall) the previously deleted text | Only works with text deleted by `Ctrl`+`U` or `Ctrl`+`K`  
`Meta`+`Y` | Cycle among previously deleted texts | Only available when the last keystroke is `Ctrl`+`Y` or `Meta`+`Y`  
`Ctrl`+`A` | Go to start of line |   
`Ctrl`+`E` | Go to end of line |   
`Ctrl`+`B` | Back one character |   
`Ctrl`+`F` | Forward one character |   
`Ctrl`+`L` | Clear screen |   
`Ctrl`+`N` | Next history item |   
`Ctrl`+`P` | Previous history item |   
`Ctrl`+`-` | Undo previous change | Any keystroke that emits key code `0x1F` will do this action. In many terminals, for example `xterm`, this is bound to `Ctrl`+`-`.  
`Ctrl`+`6` | Redo previous change | Many terminals don't have a default redo keystroke. We choose key code `0x1E` to perform redo. In `xterm`, it is bound to `Ctrl`+`6` by default.  
`Ctrl`+`Z` | Moves running process into background. Type `fg` and press `Enter` to return. | Doesn't work on Windows  
`Ctrl`+`W` or `Ctrl` +`Backspace` | Delete backward to a word boundary | `Ctrl`+`Backspace` Doesn't work on Linux, Mac and Windows  
`Ctrl`+`Delete` | Delete forward to a word boundary | Doesn't work on Mac  
`Ctrl`+`Left arrow` or `Meta`+`B` | Word left | `Ctrl`+`Left arrow` Doesn't work on Mac  
`Ctrl`+`Right arrow` or `Meta`+`F` | Word right | `Ctrl`+`Right arrow` Doesn't work on Mac  
`Meta`+`D` or `Meta` +`Delete` | Delete word right | `Meta`+`Delete` Doesn't work on windows  
`Meta`+`Backspace` | Delete word left | Doesn't work on Mac  
  
## REPL#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/repl.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/repl.js)

The `node:repl` module provides a Read-Eval-Print-Loop (REPL) implementation
that is available both as a standalone program or includible in other
applications. It can be accessed using:

    
    
    import repl from 'node:repl';const repl = require('node:repl');copy

### Design and features#

The `node:repl` module exports the `repl.REPLServer` class. While running,
instances of `repl.REPLServer` will accept individual lines of user input,
evaluate those according to a user-defined evaluation function, then output
the result. Input and output may be from `stdin` and `stdout`, respectively,
or may be connected to any Node.js [stream](stream.html).

Instances of `repl.REPLServer` support automatic completion of inputs,
completion preview, simplistic Emacs-style line editing, multi-line inputs,
[ZSH](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Z_shell)-like reverse-i-search,
[ZSH](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Z_shell)-like substring-based history
search, ANSI-styled output, saving and restoring current REPL session state,
error recovery, and customizable evaluation functions. Terminals that do not
support ANSI styles and Emacs-style line editing automatically fall back to a
limited feature set.

#### Commands and special keys#

The following special commands are supported by all REPL instances:

  * `.break`: When in the process of inputting a multi-line expression, enter the `.break` command (or press `Ctrl`+`C`) to abort further input or processing of that expression.
  * `.clear`: Resets the REPL `context` to an empty object and clears any multi-line expression being input.
  * `.exit`: Close the I/O stream, causing the REPL to exit.
  * `.help`: Show this list of special commands.
  * `.save`: Save the current REPL session to a file: `> .save ./file/to/save.js`
  * `.load`: Load a file into the current REPL session. `> .load ./file/to/load.js`
  * `.editor`: Enter editor mode (`Ctrl`+`D` to finish, `Ctrl`+`C` to cancel).

    
    
    > .editor
    // Entering editor mode (^D to finish, ^C to cancel)
    function welcome(name) {
      return `Hello ${name}!`;
    }
    
    welcome('Node.js User');
    
    // ^D
    'Hello Node.js User!'
    > copy

The following key combinations in the REPL have these special effects:

  * `Ctrl`+`C`: When pressed once, has the same effect as the `.break` command. When pressed twice on a blank line, has the same effect as the `.exit` command.
  * `Ctrl`+`D`: Has the same effect as the `.exit` command.
  * `Tab`: When pressed on a blank line, displays global and local (scope) variables. When pressed while entering other input, displays relevant autocompletion options.

For key bindings related to the reverse-i-search, see `reverse-i-search`. For
all other key bindings, see TTY keybindings.

#### Default evaluation#

By default, all instances of `repl.REPLServer` use an evaluation function that
evaluates JavaScript expressions and provides access to Node.js built-in
modules. This default behavior can be overridden by passing in an alternative
evaluation function when the `repl.REPLServer` instance is created.

##### JavaScript expressions#

The default evaluator supports direct evaluation of JavaScript expressions:

    
    
    > 1 + 1
    2
    > const m = 2
    undefined
    > m + 1
    3 copy

Unless otherwise scoped within blocks or functions, variables declared either
implicitly or using the `const`, `let`, or `var` keywords are declared at the
global scope.

##### Global and local scope#

The default evaluator provides access to any variables that exist in the
global scope. It is possible to expose a variable to the REPL explicitly by
assigning it to the `context` object associated with each `REPLServer`:

    
    
    import repl from 'node:repl';
    const msg = 'message';
    
    repl.start('> ').context.m = msg;const repl = require('node:repl');
    const msg = 'message';
    
    repl.start('> ').context.m = msg;copy

Properties in the `context` object appear as local within the REPL:

    
    
    $ node repl_test.js
    > m
    'message' copy

Context properties are not read-only by default. To specify read-only globals,
context properties must be defined using `Object.defineProperty()`:

    
    
    import repl from 'node:repl';
    const msg = 'message';
    
    const r = repl.start('> ');
    Object.defineProperty(r.context, 'm', {
      configurable: false,
      enumerable: true,
      value: msg,
    });const repl = require('node:repl');
    const msg = 'message';
    
    const r = repl.start('> ');
    Object.defineProperty(r.context, 'm', {
      configurable: false,
      enumerable: true,
      value: msg,
    });copy

##### Accessing core Node.js modules#

The default evaluator will automatically load Node.js core modules into the
REPL environment when used. For instance, unless otherwise declared as a
global or scoped variable, the input `fs` will be evaluated on-demand as
`global.fs = require('node:fs')`.

    
    
    > fs.createReadStream('./some/file'); copy

##### Global uncaught exceptions#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.3.0 | The `'uncaughtException'` event is from now on triggered if the repl is used as standalone program.  
  
The REPL uses the [`domain`](domain.html) module to catch all uncaught
exceptions for that REPL session.

This use of the [`domain`](domain.html) module in the REPL has these side
effects:

  * Uncaught exceptions only emit the `'uncaughtException'` event in the standalone REPL. Adding a listener for this event in a REPL within another Node.js program results in `ERR_INVALID_REPL_INPUT`.
    
        const r = repl.start();
    
    r.write('process.on("uncaughtException", () => console.log("Foobar"));\n');
    // Output stream includes:
    //   TypeError [ERR_INVALID_REPL_INPUT]: Listeners for `uncaughtException`
    //   cannot be used in the REPL
    
    r.close(); copy

  * Trying to use `process.setUncaughtExceptionCaptureCallback()` throws an `ERR_DOMAIN_CANNOT_SET_UNCAUGHT_EXCEPTION_CAPTURE` error.

##### Assignment of the `_` (underscore) variable#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.8.0 | Added `_error` support.  
  
The default evaluator will, by default, assign the result of the most recently
evaluated expression to the special variable `_` (underscore). Explicitly
setting `_` to a value will disable this behavior.

    
    
    > [ 'a', 'b', 'c' ]
    [ 'a', 'b', 'c' ]
    > _.length
    3
    > _ += 1
    Expression assignment to _ now disabled.
    4
    > 1 + 1
    2
    > _
    4 copy

Similarly, `_error` will refer to the last seen error, if there was any.
Explicitly setting `_error` to a value will disable this behavior.

    
    
    > throw new Error('foo');
    Uncaught Error: foo
    > _error.message
    'foo' copy

##### `await` keyword#

Support for the `await` keyword is enabled at the top level.

    
    
    > await Promise.resolve(123)
    123
    > await Promise.reject(new Error('REPL await'))
    Uncaught Error: REPL await
        at REPL2:1:54
    > const timeout = util.promisify(setTimeout);
    undefined
    > const old = Date.now(); await timeout(1000); console.log(Date.now() - old);
    1002
    undefined copy

One known limitation of using the `await` keyword in the REPL is that it will
invalidate the lexical scoping of the `const` and `let` keywords.

For example:

    
    
    > const m = await Promise.resolve(123)
    undefined
    > m
    123
    > const m = await Promise.resolve(234)
    undefined
    > m
    234 copy

`--no-experimental-repl-await` shall disable top-level await in REPL.

#### Reverse-i-search#

Added in: v13.6.0, v12.17.0

The REPL supports bi-directional reverse-i-search similar to
[ZSH](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Z_shell). It is triggered with `Ctrl`+`R`
to search backward and `Ctrl`+`S` to search forwards.

Duplicated history entries will be skipped.

Entries are accepted as soon as any key is pressed that doesn't correspond
with the reverse search. Cancelling is possible by pressing `Esc` or
`Ctrl`+`C`.

Changing the direction immediately searches for the next entry in the expected
direction from the current position on.

#### Custom evaluation functions#

When a new `repl.REPLServer` is created, a custom evaluation function may be
provided. This can be used, for instance, to implement fully customized REPL
applications.

The following illustrates an example of a REPL that squares a given number:

    
    
    import repl from 'node:repl';
    
    function byThePowerOfTwo(number) {
      return number * number;
    }
    
    function myEval(cmd, context, filename, callback) {
      callback(null, byThePowerOfTwo(cmd));
    }
    
    repl.start({ prompt: 'Enter a number: ', eval: myEval });const repl = require('node:repl');
    
    function byThePowerOfTwo(number) {
      return number * number;
    }
    
    function myEval(cmd, context, filename, callback) {
      callback(null, byThePowerOfTwo(cmd));
    }
    
    repl.start({ prompt: 'Enter a number: ', eval: myEval });copy

##### Recoverable errors#

At the REPL prompt, pressing `Enter` sends the current line of input to the
`eval` function. In order to support multi-line input, the `eval` function can
return an instance of `repl.Recoverable` to the provided callback function:

    
    
    function myEval(cmd, context, filename, callback) {
      let result;
      try {
        result = vm.runInThisContext(cmd);
      } catch (e) {
        if (isRecoverableError(e)) {
          return callback(new repl.Recoverable(e));
        }
      }
      callback(null, result);
    }
    
    function isRecoverableError(error) {
      if (error.name === 'SyntaxError') {
        return /^(Unexpected end of input|Unexpected token)/.test(error.message);
      }
      return false;
    } copy

#### Customizing REPL output#

By default, `repl.REPLServer` instances format output using the
`util.inspect()` method before writing the output to the provided `Writable`
stream (`process.stdout` by default). The `showProxy` inspection option is set
to true by default and the `colors` option is set to true depending on the
REPL's `useColors` option.

The `useColors` boolean option can be specified at construction to instruct
the default writer to use ANSI style codes to colorize the output from the
`util.inspect()` method.

If the REPL is run as standalone program, it is also possible to change the
REPL's inspection defaults from inside the REPL by using the
`inspect.replDefaults` property which mirrors the `defaultOptions` from
`util.inspect()`.

    
    
    > util.inspect.replDefaults.compact = false;
    false
    > [1]
    [
      1
    ]
    > copy

To fully customize the output of a `repl.REPLServer` instance pass in a new
function for the `writer` option on construction. The following example, for
instance, simply converts any input text to upper case:

    
    
    import repl from 'node:repl';
    
    const r = repl.start({ prompt: '> ', eval: myEval, writer: myWriter });
    
    function myEval(cmd, context, filename, callback) {
      callback(null, cmd);
    }
    
    function myWriter(output) {
      return output.toUpperCase();
    }const repl = require('node:repl');
    
    const r = repl.start({ prompt: '> ', eval: myEval, writer: myWriter });
    
    function myEval(cmd, context, filename, callback) {
      callback(null, cmd);
    }
    
    function myWriter(output) {
      return output.toUpperCase();
    }copy

### Class: `REPLServer`#

Added in: v0.1.91

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See `repl.start()`
  * Extends: <readline.Interface>

Instances of `repl.REPLServer` are created using the `repl.start()` method or
directly using the JavaScript `new` keyword.

    
    
    import repl from 'node:repl';
    
    const options = { useColors: true };
    
    const firstInstance = repl.start(options);
    const secondInstance = new repl.REPLServer(options);const repl = require('node:repl');
    
    const options = { useColors: true };
    
    const firstInstance = repl.start(options);
    const secondInstance = new repl.REPLServer(options);copy

#### Event: `'exit'`#

Added in: v0.7.7

The `'exit'` event is emitted when the REPL is exited either by receiving the
`.exit` command as input, the user pressing `Ctrl`+`C` twice to signal
`SIGINT`, or by pressing `Ctrl`+`D` to signal `'end'` on the input stream. The
listener callback is invoked without any arguments.

    
    
    replServer.on('exit', () => {
      console.log('Received "exit" event from repl!');
      process.exit();
    }); copy

#### Event: `'reset'`#

Added in: v0.11.0

The `'reset'` event is emitted when the REPL's context is reset. This occurs
whenever the `.clear` command is received as input _unless_ the REPL is using
the default evaluator and the `repl.REPLServer` instance was created with the
`useGlobal` option set to `true`. The listener callback will be called with a
reference to the `context` object as the only argument.

This can be used primarily to re-initialize REPL context to some pre-defined
state:

    
    
    import repl from 'node:repl';
    
    function initializeContext(context) {
      context.m = 'test';
    }
    
    const r = repl.start({ prompt: '> ' });
    initializeContext(r.context);
    
    r.on('reset', initializeContext);const repl = require('node:repl');
    
    function initializeContext(context) {
      context.m = 'test';
    }
    
    const r = repl.start({ prompt: '> ' });
    initializeContext(r.context);
    
    r.on('reset', initializeContext);copy

When this code is executed, the global `'m'` variable can be modified but then
reset to its initial value using the `.clear` command:

    
    
    $ ./node example.js
    > m
    'test'
    > m = 1
    1
    > m
    1
    > .clear
    Clearing context...
    > m
    'test'
    > copy

#### `replServer.defineCommand(keyword, cmd)`#

Added in: v0.3.0

  * `keyword` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The command keyword (_without_ a leading `.` character).
  * `cmd` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The function to invoke when the command is processed.

The `replServer.defineCommand()` method is used to add new `.`-prefixed
commands to the REPL instance. Such commands are invoked by typing a `.`
followed by the `keyword`. The `cmd` is either a `Function` or an `Object`
with the following properties:

  * `help` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Help text to be displayed when `.help` is entered (Optional).
  * `action` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The function to execute, optionally accepting a single string argument.

The following example shows two new commands added to the REPL instance:

    
    
    import repl from 'node:repl';
    
    const replServer = repl.start({ prompt: '> ' });
    replServer.defineCommand('sayhello', {
      help: 'Say hello',
      action(name) {
        this.clearBufferedCommand();
        console.log(`Hello, ${name}!`);
        this.displayPrompt();
      },
    });
    replServer.defineCommand('saybye', function saybye() {
      console.log('Goodbye!');
      this.close();
    });const repl = require('node:repl');
    
    const replServer = repl.start({ prompt: '> ' });
    replServer.defineCommand('sayhello', {
      help: 'Say hello',
      action(name) {
        this.clearBufferedCommand();
        console.log(`Hello, ${name}!`);
        this.displayPrompt();
      },
    });
    replServer.defineCommand('saybye', function saybye() {
      console.log('Goodbye!');
      this.close();
    });copy

The new commands can then be used from within the REPL instance:

    
    
    > .sayhello Node.js User
    Hello, Node.js User!
    > .saybye
    Goodbye! copy

#### `replServer.displayPrompt([preserveCursor])`#

Added in: v0.1.91

  * `preserveCursor` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `replServer.displayPrompt()` method readies the REPL instance for input
from the user, printing the configured `prompt` to a new line in the `output`
and resuming the `input` to accept new input.

When multi-line input is being entered, an ellipsis is printed rather than the
'prompt'.

When `preserveCursor` is `true`, the cursor placement will not be reset to
`0`.

The `replServer.displayPrompt` method is primarily intended to be called from
within the action function for commands registered using the
`replServer.defineCommand()` method.

#### `replServer.clearBufferedCommand()`#

Added in: v9.0.0

The `replServer.clearBufferedCommand()` method clears any command that has
been buffered but not yet executed. This method is primarily intended to be
called from within the action function for commands registered using the
`replServer.defineCommand()` method.

#### `replServer.setupHistory(historyPath, callback)`#

Added in: v11.10.0

  * `historyPath` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) the path to the history file
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) called when history writes are ready or upon error 
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `repl` <repl.REPLServer>

Initializes a history log file for the REPL instance. When executing the
Node.js binary and using the command-line REPL, a history file is initialized
by default. However, this is not the case when creating a REPL
programmatically. Use this method to initialize a history log file when
working with REPL instances programmatically.

### `repl.builtinModules`#

Added in: v14.5.0

  * [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

A list of the names of all Node.js modules, e.g., `'http'`.

### `repl.start([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.4.0, v12.17.0 | The `preview` option is now available.  
v12.0.0 | The `terminal` option now follows the default description in all cases and `useColors` checks `hasColors()` if available.  
v10.0.0 | The `REPL_MAGIC_MODE` `replMode` was removed.  
v6.3.0 | The `breakEvalOnSigint` option is supported now.  
v5.8.0 | The `options` parameter is optional now.  
v0.1.91 | Added in: v0.1.91  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `prompt` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The input prompt to display. **Default:** `'> '` (with a trailing space).
    * `input` <stream.Readable> The `Readable` stream from which REPL input will be read. **Default:** `process.stdin`.
    * `output` <stream.Writable> The `Writable` stream to which REPL output will be written. **Default:** `process.stdout`.
    * `terminal` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, specifies that the `output` should be treated as a TTY terminal. **Default:** checking the value of the `isTTY` property on the `output` stream upon instantiation.
    * `eval` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The function to be used when evaluating each given line of input. **Default:** an async wrapper for the JavaScript `eval()` function. An `eval` function can error with `repl.Recoverable` to indicate the input was incomplete and prompt for additional lines.
    * `useColors` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, specifies that the default `writer` function should include ANSI color styling to REPL output. If a custom `writer` function is provided then this has no effect. **Default:** checking color support on the `output` stream if the REPL instance's `terminal` value is `true`.
    * `useGlobal` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, specifies that the default evaluation function will use the JavaScript `global` as the context as opposed to creating a new separate context for the REPL instance. The node CLI REPL sets this value to `true`. **Default:** `false`.
    * `ignoreUndefined` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, specifies that the default writer will not output the return value of a command if it evaluates to `undefined`. **Default:** `false`.
    * `writer` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The function to invoke to format the output of each command before writing to `output`. **Default:** `util.inspect()`.
    * `completer` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) An optional function used for custom Tab auto completion. See `readline.InterfaceCompleter` for an example.
    * `replMode` [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) A flag that specifies whether the default evaluator executes all JavaScript commands in strict mode or default (sloppy) mode. Acceptable values are: 
      * `repl.REPL_MODE_SLOPPY` to evaluate expressions in sloppy mode.
      * `repl.REPL_MODE_STRICT` to evaluate expressions in strict mode. This is equivalent to prefacing every repl statement with `'use strict'`.
    * `breakEvalOnSigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Stop evaluating the current piece of code when `SIGINT` is received, such as when `Ctrl`+`C` is pressed. This cannot be used together with a custom `eval` function. **Default:** `false`.
    * `preview` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Defines if the repl prints autocomplete and output previews or not. **Default:** `true` with the default eval function and `false` in case a custom eval function is used. If `terminal` is falsy, then there are no previews and the value of `preview` has no effect.
  * Returns: <repl.REPLServer>

The `repl.start()` method creates and starts a `repl.REPLServer` instance.

If `options` is a string, then it specifies the input prompt:

    
    
    import repl from 'node:repl';
    
    // a Unix style prompt
    repl.start('$ ');const repl = require('node:repl');
    
    // a Unix style prompt
    repl.start('$ ');copy

### The Node.js REPL#

Node.js itself uses the `node:repl` module to provide its own interactive
interface for executing JavaScript. This can be used by executing the Node.js
binary without passing any arguments (or by passing the `-i` argument):

    
    
    $ node
    > const a = [1, 2, 3];
    undefined
    > a
    [ 1, 2, 3 ]
    > a.forEach((v) => {
    ...   console.log(v);
    ...   });
    1
    2
    3 copy

#### Environment variable options#

Various behaviors of the Node.js REPL can be customized using the following
environment variables:

  * `NODE_REPL_HISTORY`: When a valid path is given, persistent REPL history will be saved to the specified file rather than `.node_repl_history` in the user's home directory. Setting this value to `''` (an empty string) will disable persistent REPL history. Whitespace will be trimmed from the value. On Windows platforms environment variables with empty values are invalid so set this variable to one or more spaces to disable persistent REPL history.
  * `NODE_REPL_HISTORY_SIZE`: Controls how many lines of history will be persisted if history is available. Must be a positive number. **Default:** `1000`.
  * `NODE_REPL_MODE`: May be either `'sloppy'` or `'strict'`. **Default:** `'sloppy'`, which will allow non-strict mode code to be run.

#### Persistent history#

By default, the Node.js REPL will persist history between `node` REPL sessions
by saving inputs to a `.node_repl_history` file located in the user's home
directory. This can be disabled by setting the environment variable
`NODE_REPL_HISTORY=''`.

#### Using the Node.js REPL with advanced line-editors#

For advanced line-editors, start Node.js with the environment variable
`NODE_NO_READLINE=1`. This will start the main and debugger REPL in canonical
terminal settings, which will allow use with `rlwrap`.

For example, the following can be added to a `.bashrc` file:

    
    
    alias node="env NODE_NO_READLINE=1 rlwrap node" copy

#### Starting multiple REPL instances against a single running instance#

It is possible to create and run multiple REPL instances against a single
running instance of Node.js that share a single `global` object but have
separate I/O interfaces.

The following example, for instance, provides separate REPLs on `stdin`, a
Unix socket, and a TCP socket:

    
    
    import net from 'node:net';
    import repl from 'node:repl';
    import process from 'node:process';
    
    let connections = 0;
    
    repl.start({
      prompt: 'Node.js via stdin> ',
      input: process.stdin,
      output: process.stdout,
    });
    
    net.createServer((socket) => {
      connections += 1;
      repl.start({
        prompt: 'Node.js via Unix socket> ',
        input: socket,
        output: socket,
      }).on('exit', () => {
        socket.end();
      });
    }).listen('/tmp/node-repl-sock');
    
    net.createServer((socket) => {
      connections += 1;
      repl.start({
        prompt: 'Node.js via TCP socket> ',
        input: socket,
        output: socket,
      }).on('exit', () => {
        socket.end();
      });
    }).listen(5001);const net = require('node:net');
    const repl = require('node:repl');
    let connections = 0;
    
    repl.start({
      prompt: 'Node.js via stdin> ',
      input: process.stdin,
      output: process.stdout,
    });
    
    net.createServer((socket) => {
      connections += 1;
      repl.start({
        prompt: 'Node.js via Unix socket> ',
        input: socket,
        output: socket,
      }).on('exit', () => {
        socket.end();
      });
    }).listen('/tmp/node-repl-sock');
    
    net.createServer((socket) => {
      connections += 1;
      repl.start({
        prompt: 'Node.js via TCP socket> ',
        input: socket,
        output: socket,
      }).on('exit', () => {
        socket.end();
      });
    }).listen(5001);copy

Running this application from the command line will start a REPL on stdin.
Other REPL clients may connect through the Unix socket or TCP socket.
`telnet`, for instance, is useful for connecting to TCP sockets, while `socat`
can be used to connect to both Unix and TCP sockets.

By starting a REPL from a Unix socket-based server instead of stdin, it is
possible to connect to a long-running Node.js process without restarting it.

For an example of running a "full-featured" (`terminal`) REPL over a
`net.Server` and `net.Socket` instance, see:
<https://gist.github.com/TooTallNate/2209310>.

For an example of running a REPL instance over
[`curl(1)`](https://curl.haxx.se/docs/manpage.html), see:
<https://gist.github.com/TooTallNate/2053342>.

This example is intended purely for educational purposes to demonstrate how
Node.js REPLs can be started using different I/O streams. It should **not** be
used in production environments or any context where security is a concern
without additional protective measures. If you need to implement REPLs in a
real-world application, consider alternative approaches that mitigate these
risks, such as using secure input mechanisms and avoiding open network
interfaces.

## Diagnostic report#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.3.0 | Added `--report-exclude-env` option for excluding environment variables from report generation.  
v22.0.0, v20.13.0 | Added `--report-exclude-network` option for excluding networking operations that can slow down report generation in some cases.  
  
Delivers a JSON-formatted diagnostic summary, written to a file.

The report is intended for development, test, and production use, to capture
and preserve information for problem determination. It includes JavaScript and
native stack traces, heap statistics, platform information, resource usage
etc. With the report option enabled, diagnostic reports can be triggered on
unhandled exceptions, fatal errors and user signals, in addition to triggering
programmatically through API calls.

A complete example report that was generated on an uncaught exception is
provided below for reference.

    
    
    {
      "header": {
        "reportVersion": 5,
        "event": "exception",
        "trigger": "Exception",
        "filename": "report.20181221.005011.8974.0.001.json",
        "dumpEventTime": "2018-12-21T00:50:11Z",
        "dumpEventTimeStamp": "1545371411331",
        "processId": 8974,
        "cwd": "/home/nodeuser/project/node",
        "commandLine": [
          "/home/nodeuser/project/node/out/Release/node",
          "--report-uncaught-exception",
          "/home/nodeuser/project/node/test/report/test-exception.js",
          "child"
        ],
        "nodejsVersion": "v12.0.0-pre",
        "glibcVersionRuntime": "2.17",
        "glibcVersionCompiler": "2.17",
        "wordSize": "64 bit",
        "arch": "x64",
        "platform": "linux",
        "componentVersions": {
          "node": "12.0.0-pre",
          "v8": "7.1.302.28-node.5",
          "uv": "1.24.1",
          "zlib": "1.2.11",
          "ares": "1.15.0",
          "modules": "68",
          "nghttp2": "1.34.0",
          "napi": "3",
          "llhttp": "1.0.1",
          "openssl": "1.1.0j"
        },
        "release": {
          "name": "node"
        },
        "osName": "Linux",
        "osRelease": "3.10.0-862.el7.x86_64",
        "osVersion": "#1 SMP Wed Mar 21 18:14:51 EDT 2018",
        "osMachine": "x86_64",
        "cpus": [
          {
            "model": "Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-6820HQ CPU @ 2.70GHz",
            "speed": 2700,
            "user": 88902660,
            "nice": 0,
            "sys": 50902570,
            "idle": 241732220,
            "irq": 0
          },
          {
            "model": "Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-6820HQ CPU @ 2.70GHz",
            "speed": 2700,
            "user": 88902660,
            "nice": 0,
            "sys": 50902570,
            "idle": 241732220,
            "irq": 0
          }
        ],
        "networkInterfaces": [
          {
            "name": "en0",
            "internal": false,
            "mac": "13:10:de:ad:be:ef",
            "address": "10.0.0.37",
            "netmask": "255.255.255.0",
            "family": "IPv4"
          }
        ],
        "host": "test_machine"
      },
      "javascriptStack": {
        "message": "Error: *** test-exception.js: throwing uncaught Error",
        "stack": [
          "at myException (/home/nodeuser/project/node/test/report/test-exception.js:9:11)",
          "at Object.<anonymous> (/home/nodeuser/project/node/test/report/test-exception.js:12:3)",
          "at Module._compile (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:718:30)",
          "at Object.Module._extensions..js (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:729:10)",
          "at Module.load (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:617:32)",
          "at tryModuleLoad (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:560:12)",
          "at Function.Module._load (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:552:3)",
          "at Function.Module.runMain (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:771:12)",
          "at executeUserCode (internal/bootstrap/node.js:332:15)"
        ]
      },
      "nativeStack": [
        {
          "pc": "0x000055b57f07a9ef",
          "symbol": "report::GetNodeReport(v8::Isolate*, node::Environment*, char const*, char const*, v8::Local<v8::String>, std::ostream&) [./node]"
        },
        {
          "pc": "0x000055b57f07cf03",
          "symbol": "report::GetReport(v8::FunctionCallbackInfo<v8::Value> const&) [./node]"
        },
        {
          "pc": "0x000055b57f1bccfd",
          "symbol": " [./node]"
        },
        {
          "pc": "0x000055b57f1be048",
          "symbol": "v8::internal::Builtin_HandleApiCall(int, v8::internal::Object**, v8::internal::Isolate*) [./node]"
        },
        {
          "pc": "0x000055b57feeda0e",
          "symbol": " [./node]"
        }
      ],
      "javascriptHeap": {
        "totalMemory": 5660672,
        "executableMemory": 524288,
        "totalCommittedMemory": 5488640,
        "availableMemory": 4341379928,
        "totalGlobalHandlesMemory": 8192,
        "usedGlobalHandlesMemory": 3136,
        "usedMemory": 4816432,
        "memoryLimit": 4345298944,
        "mallocedMemory": 254128,
        "externalMemory": 315644,
        "peakMallocedMemory": 98752,
        "nativeContextCount": 1,
        "detachedContextCount": 0,
        "doesZapGarbage": 0,
        "heapSpaces": {
          "read_only_space": {
            "memorySize": 524288,
            "committedMemory": 39208,
            "capacity": 515584,
            "used": 30504,
            "available": 485080
          },
          "new_space": {
            "memorySize": 2097152,
            "committedMemory": 2019312,
            "capacity": 1031168,
            "used": 985496,
            "available": 45672
          },
          "old_space": {
            "memorySize": 2273280,
            "committedMemory": 1769008,
            "capacity": 1974640,
            "used": 1725488,
            "available": 249152
          },
          "code_space": {
            "memorySize": 696320,
            "committedMemory": 184896,
            "capacity": 152128,
            "used": 152128,
            "available": 0
          },
          "map_space": {
            "memorySize": 536576,
            "committedMemory": 344928,
            "capacity": 327520,
            "used": 327520,
            "available": 0
          },
          "large_object_space": {
            "memorySize": 0,
            "committedMemory": 0,
            "capacity": 1520590336,
            "used": 0,
            "available": 1520590336
          },
          "new_large_object_space": {
            "memorySize": 0,
            "committedMemory": 0,
            "capacity": 0,
            "used": 0,
            "available": 0
          }
        }
      },
      "resourceUsage": {
        "rss": "35766272",
        "free_memory": "1598337024",
        "total_memory": "17179869184",
        "available_memory": "1598337024",
        "maxRss": "36624662528",
        "constrained_memory": "36624662528",
        "userCpuSeconds": 0.040072,
        "kernelCpuSeconds": 0.016029,
        "cpuConsumptionPercent": 5.6101,
        "userCpuConsumptionPercent": 4.0072,
        "kernelCpuConsumptionPercent": 1.6029,
        "pageFaults": {
          "IORequired": 0,
          "IONotRequired": 4610
        },
        "fsActivity": {
          "reads": 0,
          "writes": 0
        }
      },
      "uvthreadResourceUsage": {
        "userCpuSeconds": 0.039843,
        "kernelCpuSeconds": 0.015937,
        "cpuConsumptionPercent": 5.578,
        "userCpuConsumptionPercent": 3.9843,
        "kernelCpuConsumptionPercent": 1.5937,
        "fsActivity": {
          "reads": 0,
          "writes": 0
        }
      },
      "libuv": [
        {
          "type": "async",
          "is_active": true,
          "is_referenced": false,
          "address": "0x0000000102910900",
          "details": ""
        },
        {
          "type": "timer",
          "is_active": false,
          "is_referenced": false,
          "address": "0x00007fff5fbfeab0",
          "repeat": 0,
          "firesInMsFromNow": 94403548320796,
          "expired": true
        },
        {
          "type": "check",
          "is_active": true,
          "is_referenced": false,
          "address": "0x00007fff5fbfeb48"
        },
        {
          "type": "idle",
          "is_active": false,
          "is_referenced": true,
          "address": "0x00007fff5fbfebc0"
        },
        {
          "type": "prepare",
          "is_active": false,
          "is_referenced": false,
          "address": "0x00007fff5fbfec38"
        },
        {
          "type": "check",
          "is_active": false,
          "is_referenced": false,
          "address": "0x00007fff5fbfecb0"
        },
        {
          "type": "async",
          "is_active": true,
          "is_referenced": false,
          "address": "0x000000010188f2e0"
        },
        {
          "type": "tty",
          "is_active": false,
          "is_referenced": true,
          "address": "0x000055b581db0e18",
          "width": 204,
          "height": 55,
          "fd": 17,
          "writeQueueSize": 0,
          "readable": true,
          "writable": true
        },
        {
          "type": "signal",
          "is_active": true,
          "is_referenced": false,
          "address": "0x000055b581d80010",
          "signum": 28,
          "signal": "SIGWINCH"
        },
        {
          "type": "tty",
          "is_active": true,
          "is_referenced": true,
          "address": "0x000055b581df59f8",
          "width": 204,
          "height": 55,
          "fd": 19,
          "writeQueueSize": 0,
          "readable": true,
          "writable": true
        },
        {
          "type": "loop",
          "is_active": true,
          "address": "0x000055fc7b2cb180",
          "loopIdleTimeSeconds": 22644.8
        },
        {
          "type": "tcp",
          "is_active": true,
          "is_referenced": true,
          "address": "0x000055e70fcb85d8",
          "localEndpoint": {
            "host": "localhost",
            "ip4": "127.0.0.1",
            "port": 48986
          },
          "remoteEndpoint": {
            "host": "localhost",
            "ip4": "127.0.0.1",
            "port": 38573
          },
          "sendBufferSize": 2626560,
          "recvBufferSize": 131072,
          "fd": 24,
          "writeQueueSize": 0,
          "readable": true,
          "writable": true
        }
      ],
      "workers": [],
      "environmentVariables": {
        "REMOTEHOST": "REMOVED",
        "MANPATH": "/opt/rh/devtoolset-3/root/usr/share/man:",
        "XDG_SESSION_ID": "66126",
        "HOSTNAME": "test_machine",
        "HOST": "test_machine",
        "TERM": "xterm-256color",
        "SHELL": "/bin/csh",
        "SSH_CLIENT": "REMOVED",
        "PERL5LIB": "/opt/rh/devtoolset-3/root//usr/lib64/perl5/vendor_perl:/opt/rh/devtoolset-3/root/usr/lib/perl5:/opt/rh/devtoolset-3/root//usr/share/perl5/vendor_perl",
        "OLDPWD": "/home/nodeuser/project/node/src",
        "JAVACONFDIRS": "/opt/rh/devtoolset-3/root/etc/java:/etc/java",
        "SSH_TTY": "/dev/pts/0",
        "PCP_DIR": "/opt/rh/devtoolset-3/root",
        "GROUP": "normaluser",
        "USER": "nodeuser",
        "LD_LIBRARY_PATH": "/opt/rh/devtoolset-3/root/usr/lib64:/opt/rh/devtoolset-3/root/usr/lib",
        "HOSTTYPE": "x86_64-linux",
        "XDG_CONFIG_DIRS": "/opt/rh/devtoolset-3/root/etc/xdg:/etc/xdg",
        "MAIL": "/var/spool/mail/nodeuser",
        "PATH": "/home/nodeuser/project/node:/opt/rh/devtoolset-3/root/usr/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/sbin",
        "PWD": "/home/nodeuser/project/node",
        "LANG": "en_US.UTF-8",
        "PS1": "\\u@\\h : \\[\\e[31m\\]\\w\\[\\e[m\\] >  ",
        "SHLVL": "2",
        "HOME": "/home/nodeuser",
        "OSTYPE": "linux",
        "VENDOR": "unknown",
        "PYTHONPATH": "/opt/rh/devtoolset-3/root/usr/lib64/python2.7/site-packages:/opt/rh/devtoolset-3/root/usr/lib/python2.7/site-packages",
        "MACHTYPE": "x86_64",
        "LOGNAME": "nodeuser",
        "XDG_DATA_DIRS": "/opt/rh/devtoolset-3/root/usr/share:/usr/local/share:/usr/share",
        "LESSOPEN": "||/usr/bin/lesspipe.sh %s",
        "INFOPATH": "/opt/rh/devtoolset-3/root/usr/share/info",
        "XDG_RUNTIME_DIR": "/run/user/50141",
        "_": "./node"
      },
      "userLimits": {
        "core_file_size_blocks": {
          "soft": "",
          "hard": "unlimited"
        },
        "data_seg_size_bytes": {
          "soft": "unlimited",
          "hard": "unlimited"
        },
        "file_size_blocks": {
          "soft": "unlimited",
          "hard": "unlimited"
        },
        "max_locked_memory_bytes": {
          "soft": "unlimited",
          "hard": 65536
        },
        "max_memory_size_bytes": {
          "soft": "unlimited",
          "hard": "unlimited"
        },
        "open_files": {
          "soft": "unlimited",
          "hard": 4096
        },
        "stack_size_bytes": {
          "soft": "unlimited",
          "hard": "unlimited"
        },
        "cpu_time_seconds": {
          "soft": "unlimited",
          "hard": "unlimited"
        },
        "max_user_processes": {
          "soft": "unlimited",
          "hard": 4127290
        },
        "virtual_memory_bytes": {
          "soft": "unlimited",
          "hard": "unlimited"
        }
      },
      "sharedObjects": [
        "/lib64/libdl.so.2",
        "/lib64/librt.so.1",
        "/lib64/libstdc++.so.6",
        "/lib64/libm.so.6",
        "/lib64/libgcc_s.so.1",
        "/lib64/libpthread.so.0",
        "/lib64/libc.so.6",
        "/lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2"
      ]
    } copy

### Usage#

    
    
    node --report-uncaught-exception --report-on-signal \
    --report-on-fatalerror app.js copy

  * `--report-uncaught-exception` Enables report to be generated on un-caught exceptions. Useful when inspecting JavaScript stack in conjunction with native stack and other runtime environment data.

  * `--report-on-signal` Enables report to be generated upon receiving the specified (or predefined) signal to the running Node.js process. (See below on how to modify the signal that triggers the report.) Default signal is `SIGUSR2`. Useful when a report needs to be triggered from another program. Application monitors may leverage this feature to collect report at regular intervals and plot rich set of internal runtime data to their views.

Signal based report generation is not supported in Windows.

Under normal circumstances, there is no need to modify the report triggering
signal. However, if `SIGUSR2` is already used for other purposes, then this
flag helps to change the signal for report generation and preserve the
original meaning of `SIGUSR2` for the said purposes.

  * `--report-on-fatalerror` Enables the report to be triggered on fatal errors (internal errors within the Node.js runtime, such as out of memory) that leads to termination of the application. Useful to inspect various diagnostic data elements such as heap, stack, event loop state, resource consumption etc. to reason about the fatal error.

  * `--report-compact` Write reports in a compact format, single-line JSON, more easily consumable by log processing systems than the default multi-line format designed for human consumption.

  * `--report-directory` Location at which the report will be generated.

  * `--report-filename` Name of the file to which the report will be written.

  * `--report-signal` Sets or resets the signal for report generation (not supported on Windows). Default signal is `SIGUSR2`.

  * `--report-exclude-network` Exclude `header.networkInterfaces` and disable the reverse DNS queries in `libuv.*.(remote|local)Endpoint.host` from the diagnostic report. By default this is not set and the network interfaces are included.

  * `--report-exclude-env` Exclude `environmentVariables` from the diagnostic report. By default this is not set and the environment variables are included.

A report can also be triggered via an API call from a JavaScript application:

    
    
    process.report.writeReport(); copy

This function takes an optional additional argument `filename`, which is the
name of a file into which the report is written.

    
    
    process.report.writeReport('./foo.json'); copy

This function takes an optional additional argument `err` which is an `Error`
object that will be used as the context for the JavaScript stack printed in
the report. When using report to handle errors in a callback or an exception
handler, this allows the report to include the location of the original error
as well as where it was handled.

    
    
    try {
      process.chdir('/non-existent-path');
    } catch (err) {
      process.report.writeReport(err);
    }
    // Any other code copy

If both filename and error object are passed to `writeReport()` the error
object must be the second parameter.

    
    
    try {
      process.chdir('/non-existent-path');
    } catch (err) {
      process.report.writeReport(filename, err);
    }
    // Any other code copy

The content of the diagnostic report can be returned as a JavaScript Object
via an API call from a JavaScript application:

    
    
    const report = process.report.getReport();
    console.log(typeof report === 'object'); // true
    
    // Similar to process.report.writeReport() output
    console.log(JSON.stringify(report, null, 2)); copy

This function takes an optional additional argument `err`, which is an `Error`
object that will be used as the context for the JavaScript stack printed in
the report.

    
    
    const report = process.report.getReport(new Error('custom error'));
    console.log(typeof report === 'object'); // true copy

The API versions are useful when inspecting the runtime state from within the
application, in expectation of self-adjusting the resource consumption, load
balancing, monitoring etc.

The content of the report consists of a header section containing the event
type, date, time, PID, and Node.js version, sections containing JavaScript and
native stack traces, a section containing V8 heap information, a section
containing `libuv` handle information, and an OS platform information section
showing CPU and memory usage and system limits. An example report can be
triggered using the Node.js REPL:

    
    
    $ node
    > process.report.writeReport();
    Writing Node.js report to file: report.20181126.091102.8480.0.001.json
    Node.js report completed
    > copy

When a report is written, start and end messages are issued to stderr and the
filename of the report is returned to the caller. The default filename
includes the date, time, PID, and a sequence number. The sequence number helps
in associating the report dump with the runtime state if generated multiple
times for the same Node.js process.

### Report Version#

Diagnostic report has an associated single-digit version number
(`report.header.reportVersion`), uniquely representing the report format. The
version number is bumped when new key is added or removed, or the data type of
a value is changed. Report version definitions are consistent across LTS
releases.

#### Version history#

##### Version 5#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.5.0 | Fix typos in the memory limit units.  
  
Replace the keys `data_seg_size_kbytes`, `max_memory_size_kbytes`, and
`virtual_memory_kbytes` with `data_seg_size_bytes`, `max_memory_size_bytes`,
and `virtual_memory_bytes` respectively in the `userLimits` section, as these
values are given in bytes.

    
    
    {
      "userLimits": {
        // Skip some keys ...
        "data_seg_size_bytes": { // replacing data_seg_size_kbytes
          "soft": "unlimited",
          "hard": "unlimited"
        },
        // ...
        "max_memory_size_bytes": { // replacing max_memory_size_kbytes
          "soft": "unlimited",
          "hard": "unlimited"
        },
        // ...
        "virtual_memory_bytes": { // replacing virtual_memory_kbytes
          "soft": "unlimited",
          "hard": "unlimited"
        }
      }
    } copy

##### Version 4#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.3.0 | Added `--report-exclude-env` option for excluding environment variables from report generation.  
  
New fields `ipv4` and `ipv6` are added to `tcp` and `udp` libuv handles
endpoints. Examples:

    
    
    {
      "libuv": [
        {
          "type": "tcp",
          "is_active": true,
          "is_referenced": true,
          "address": "0x000055e70fcb85d8",
          "localEndpoint": {
            "host": "localhost",
            "ip4": "127.0.0.1", // new key
            "port": 48986
          },
          "remoteEndpoint": {
            "host": "localhost",
            "ip4": "127.0.0.1", // new key
            "port": 38573
          },
          "sendBufferSize": 2626560,
          "recvBufferSize": 131072,
          "fd": 24,
          "writeQueueSize": 0,
          "readable": true,
          "writable": true
        },
        {
          "type": "tcp",
          "is_active": true,
          "is_referenced": true,
          "address": "0x000055e70fcd68c8",
          "localEndpoint": {
            "host": "ip6-localhost",
            "ip6": "::1", // new key
            "port": 52266
          },
          "remoteEndpoint": {
            "host": "ip6-localhost",
            "ip6": "::1", // new key
            "port": 38573
          },
          "sendBufferSize": 2626560,
          "recvBufferSize": 131072,
          "fd": 25,
          "writeQueueSize": 0,
          "readable": false,
          "writable": false
        }
      ]
    } copy

##### Version 3#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.1.0, v18.13.0 | Add more memory info.  
  
The following memory usage keys are added to the `resourceUsage` section.

    
    
    {
      "resourceUsage": {
        "rss": "35766272",
        "free_memory": "1598337024",
        "total_memory": "17179869184",
        "available_memory": "1598337024",
        "constrained_memory": "36624662528"
      }
    } copy

##### Version 2#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.9.0, v12.16.2 | Workers are now included in the report.  
  
Added [`Worker`](worker_threads.html) support. Refer to Interaction with
workers section for more details.

##### Version 1#

This is the first version of the diagnostic report.

### Configuration#

Additional runtime configuration of report generation is available via the
following properties of `process.report`:

`reportOnFatalError` triggers diagnostic reporting on fatal errors when
`true`. Defaults to `false`.

`reportOnSignal` triggers diagnostic reporting on signal when `true`. This is
not supported on Windows. Defaults to `false`.

`reportOnUncaughtException` triggers diagnostic reporting on uncaught
exception when `true`. Defaults to `false`.

`signal` specifies the POSIX signal identifier that will be used to intercept
external triggers for report generation. Defaults to `'SIGUSR2'`.

`filename` specifies the name of the output file in the file system. Special
meaning is attached to `stdout` and `stderr`. Usage of these will result in
report being written to the associated standard streams. In cases where
standard streams are used, the value in `directory` is ignored. URLs are not
supported. Defaults to a composite filename that contains timestamp, PID, and
sequence number.

`directory` specifies the file system directory where the report will be
written. URLs are not supported. Defaults to the current working directory of
the Node.js process.

`excludeNetwork` excludes `header.networkInterfaces` from the diagnostic
report.

    
    
    // Trigger report only on uncaught exceptions.
    process.report.reportOnFatalError = false;
    process.report.reportOnSignal = false;
    process.report.reportOnUncaughtException = true;
    
    // Trigger report for both internal errors as well as external signal.
    process.report.reportOnFatalError = true;
    process.report.reportOnSignal = true;
    process.report.reportOnUncaughtException = false;
    
    // Change the default signal to 'SIGQUIT' and enable it.
    process.report.reportOnFatalError = false;
    process.report.reportOnUncaughtException = false;
    process.report.reportOnSignal = true;
    process.report.signal = 'SIGQUIT';
    
    // Disable network interfaces reporting
    process.report.excludeNetwork = true; copy

Configuration on module initialization is also available via environment
variables:

    
    
    NODE_OPTIONS="--report-uncaught-exception \
      --report-on-fatalerror --report-on-signal \
      --report-signal=SIGUSR2  --report-filename=./report.json \
      --report-directory=/home/nodeuser" copy

Specific API documentation can be found under [`process API
documentation`](process.html) section.

### Interaction with workers#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.9.0, v12.16.2 | Workers are now included in the report.  
  
[`Worker`](worker_threads.html) threads can create reports in the same way
that the main thread does.

Reports will include information on any Workers that are children of the
current thread as part of the `workers` section, with each Worker generating a
report in the standard report format.

The thread which is generating the report will wait for the reports from
Worker threads to finish. However, the latency for this will usually be low,
as both running JavaScript and the event loop are interrupted to generate the
report.

## Single executable applications#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.6.0 | Added support for "useSnapshot".  
v20.6.0 | Added support for "useCodeCache".  
v19.7.0, v18.16.0 | Added in: v19.7.0, v18.16.0  
  
Stability: 1.1 - Active development

**Source Code:**
[src/node_sea.cc](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/src/node_sea.cc)

This feature allows the distribution of a Node.js application conveniently to
a system that does not have Node.js installed.

Node.js supports the creation of [single executable
applications](https://github.com/nodejs/single-executable) by allowing the
injection of a blob prepared by Node.js, which can contain a bundled script,
into the `node` binary. During start up, the program checks if anything has
been injected. If the blob is found, it executes the script in the blob.
Otherwise Node.js operates as it normally does.

The single executable application feature currently only supports running a
single embedded script using the CommonJS module system.

Users can create a single executable application from their bundled script
with the `node` binary itself and any tool which can inject resources into the
binary.

Here are the steps for creating a single executable application using one such
tool, [postject](https://github.com/nodejs/postject):

  1. Create a JavaScript file:
    
        echo 'console.log(`Hello, ${process.argv[2]}!`);' > hello.js copy

  2. Create a configuration file building a blob that can be injected into the single executable application (see Generating single executable preparation blobs for details):
    
        echo '{ "main": "hello.js", "output": "sea-prep.blob" }' > sea-config.json copy

  3. Generate the blob to be injected:
    
        node --experimental-sea-config sea-config.json copy

  4. Create a copy of the `node` executable and name it according to your needs:

     * On systems other than Windows:
    
        cp $(command -v node) hello copy

     * On Windows:
    
        node -e "require('fs').copyFileSync(process.execPath, 'hello.exe')" copy

The `.exe` extension is necessary.

  5. Remove the signature of the binary (macOS and Windows only):

     * On macOS:
    
        codesign --remove-signature hello copy

     * On Windows (optional):

[signtool](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/seccrypto/signtool)
can be used from the installed [Windows
SDK](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/downloads/windows-sdk/). If
this step is skipped, ignore any signature-related warning from postject.

    
        signtool remove /s hello.exe copy

  6. Inject the blob into the copied binary by running `postject` with the following options:

     * `hello` / `hello.exe` \- The name of the copy of the `node` executable created in step 4.
     * `NODE_SEA_BLOB` \- The name of the resource / note / section in the binary where the contents of the blob will be stored.
     * `sea-prep.blob` \- The name of the blob created in step 1.
     * `--sentinel-fuse NODE_SEA_FUSE_fce680ab2cc467b6e072b8b5df1996b2` \- The [fuse](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/tutorial/fuses) used by the Node.js project to detect if a file has been injected.
     * `--macho-segment-name NODE_SEA` (only needed on macOS) - The name of the segment in the binary where the contents of the blob will be stored.

To summarize, here is the required command for each platform:

     * On Linux:
        
                npx postject hello NODE_SEA_BLOB sea-prep.blob \
            --sentinel-fuse NODE_SEA_FUSE_fce680ab2cc467b6e072b8b5df1996b2 copy

     * On Windows - PowerShell:
        
                npx postject hello.exe NODE_SEA_BLOB sea-prep.blob `
            --sentinel-fuse NODE_SEA_FUSE_fce680ab2cc467b6e072b8b5df1996b2 copy

     * On Windows - Command Prompt:
        
                npx postject hello.exe NODE_SEA_BLOB sea-prep.blob ^
            --sentinel-fuse NODE_SEA_FUSE_fce680ab2cc467b6e072b8b5df1996b2 copy

     * On macOS:
        
                npx postject hello NODE_SEA_BLOB sea-prep.blob \
            --sentinel-fuse NODE_SEA_FUSE_fce680ab2cc467b6e072b8b5df1996b2 \
            --macho-segment-name NODE_SEA copy

  7. Sign the binary (macOS and Windows only):

     * On macOS:
    
        codesign --sign - hello copy

     * On Windows (optional):

A certificate needs to be present for this to work. However, the unsigned
binary would still be runnable.

    
        signtool sign /fd SHA256 hello.exe copy

  8. Run the binary:

     * On systems other than Windows
    
        $ ./hello world
    Hello, world! copy

     * On Windows
    
        $ .\hello.exe world
    Hello, world! copy

### Generating single executable preparation blobs#

Single executable preparation blobs that are injected into the application can
be generated using the `--experimental-sea-config` flag of the Node.js binary
that will be used to build the single executable. It takes a path to a
configuration file in JSON format. If the path passed to it isn't absolute,
Node.js will use the path relative to the current working directory.

The configuration currently reads the following top-level fields:

    
    
    {
      "main": "/path/to/bundled/script.js",
      "output": "/path/to/write/the/generated/blob.blob",
      "disableExperimentalSEAWarning": true, // Default: false
      "useSnapshot": false,  // Default: false
      "useCodeCache": true, // Default: false
      "assets": {  // Optional
        "a.dat": "/path/to/a.dat",
        "b.txt": "/path/to/b.txt"
      }
    } copy

If the paths are not absolute, Node.js will use the path relative to the
current working directory. The version of the Node.js binary used to produce
the blob must be the same as the one to which the blob will be injected.

Note: When generating cross-platform SEAs (e.g., generating a SEA for
`linux-x64` on `darwin-arm64`), `useCodeCache` and `useSnapshot` must be set
to false to avoid generating incompatible executables. Since code cache and
snapshots can only be loaded on the same platform where they are compiled, the
generated executable might crash on startup when trying to load code cache or
snapshots built on a different platform.

#### Assets#

Users can include assets by adding a key-path dictionary to the configuration
as the `assets` field. At build time, Node.js would read the assets from the
specified paths and bundle them into the preparation blob. In the generated
executable, users can retrieve the assets using the `sea.getAsset()` and
`sea.getAssetAsBlob()` APIs.

    
    
    {
      "main": "/path/to/bundled/script.js",
      "output": "/path/to/write/the/generated/blob.blob",
      "assets": {
        "a.jpg": "/path/to/a.jpg",
        "b.txt": "/path/to/b.txt"
      }
    } copy

The single-executable application can access the assets as follows:

    
    
    const { getAsset, getAssetAsBlob, getRawAsset } = require('node:sea');
    // Returns a copy of the data in an ArrayBuffer.
    const image = getAsset('a.jpg');
    // Returns a string decoded from the asset as UTF8.
    const text = getAsset('b.txt', 'utf8');
    // Returns a Blob containing the asset.
    const blob = getAssetAsBlob('a.jpg');
    // Returns an ArrayBuffer containing the raw asset without copying.
    const raw = getRawAsset('a.jpg'); copy

See documentation of the `sea.getAsset()`, `sea.getAssetAsBlob()` and
`sea.getRawAsset()` APIs for more information.

#### Startup snapshot support#

The `useSnapshot` field can be used to enable startup snapshot support. In
this case the `main` script would not be when the final executable is
launched. Instead, it would be run when the single executable application
preparation blob is generated on the building machine. The generated
preparation blob would then include a snapshot capturing the states
initialized by the `main` script. The final executable with the preparation
blob injected would deserialize the snapshot at run time.

When `useSnapshot` is true, the main script must invoke the
`v8.startupSnapshot.setDeserializeMainFunction()` API to configure code that
needs to be run when the final executable is launched by the users.

The typical pattern for an application to use snapshot in a single executable
application is:

  1. At build time, on the building machine, the main script is run to initialize the heap to a state that's ready to take user input. The script should also configure a main function with `v8.startupSnapshot.setDeserializeMainFunction()`. This function will be compiled and serialized into the snapshot, but not invoked at build time.
  2. At run time, the main function will be run on top of the deserialized heap on the user machine to process user input and generate output.

The general constraints of the startup snapshot scripts also apply to the main
script when it's used to build snapshot for the single executable application,
and the main script can use the `v8.startupSnapshot` API to adapt to these
constraints. See documentation about startup snapshot support in Node.js.

#### V8 code cache support#

When `useCodeCache` is set to `true` in the configuration, during the
generation of the single executable preparation blob, Node.js will compile the
`main` script to generate the V8 code cache. The generated code cache would be
part of the preparation blob and get injected into the final executable. When
the single executable application is launched, instead of compiling the `main`
script from scratch, Node.js would use the code cache to speed up the
compilation, then execute the script, which would improve the startup
performance.

**Note:** `import()` does not work when `useCodeCache` is `true`.

### In the injected main script#

#### Single-executable application API#

The `node:sea` builtin allows interaction with the single-executable
application from the JavaScript main script embedded into the executable.

##### `sea.isSea()`#

Added in: v21.7.0, v20.12.0

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether this script is running inside a single-executable application.

#### `sea.getAsset(key[, encoding])`#

Added in: v21.7.0, v20.12.0

This method can be used to retrieve the assets configured to be bundled into
the single-executable application at build time. An error is thrown when no
matching asset can be found.

  * `key` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) the key for the asset in the dictionary specified by the `assets` field in the single-executable application configuration.
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If specified, the asset will be decoded as a string. Any encoding supported by the `TextDecoder` is accepted. If unspecified, an `ArrayBuffer` containing a copy of the asset would be returned instead.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer)

#### `sea.getAssetAsBlob(key[, options])`#

Added in: v21.7.0, v20.12.0

Similar to `sea.getAsset()`, but returns the result in a <Blob>. An error is
thrown when no matching asset can be found.

  * `key` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) the key for the asset in the dictionary specified by the `assets` field in the single-executable application configuration.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) An optional mime type for the blob.
  * Returns: <Blob>

#### `sea.getRawAsset(key)`#

Added in: v21.7.0, v20.12.0

This method can be used to retrieve the assets configured to be bundled into
the single-executable application at build time. An error is thrown when no
matching asset can be found.

Unlike `sea.getAsset()` or `sea.getAssetAsBlob()`, this method does not return
a copy. Instead, it returns the raw asset bundled inside the executable.

For now, users should avoid writing to the returned array buffer. If the
injected section is not marked as writable or not aligned properly, writes to
the returned array buffer is likely to result in a crash.

  * `key` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) the key for the asset in the dictionary specified by the `assets` field in the single-executable application configuration.
  * Returns: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer)

#### `require(id)` in the injected main script is not file based#

`require()` in the injected main script is not the same as the `require()`
available to modules that are not injected. It also does not have any of the
properties that non-injected `require()` has except `require.main`. It can
only be used to load built-in modules. Attempting to load a module that can
only be found in the file system will throw an error.

Instead of relying on a file based `require()`, users can bundle their
application into a standalone JavaScript file to inject into the executable.
This also ensures a more deterministic dependency graph.

However, if a file based `require()` is still needed, that can also be
achieved:

    
    
    const { createRequire } = require('node:module');
    require = createRequire(__filename); copy

#### `__filename` and `module.filename` in the injected main script#

The values of `__filename` and `module.filename` in the injected main script
are equal to `process.execPath`.

#### `__dirname` in the injected main script#

The value of `__dirname` in the injected main script is equal to the directory
name of `process.execPath`.

### Notes#

#### Single executable application creation process#

A tool aiming to create a single executable Node.js application must inject
the contents of the blob prepared with `--experimental-sea-config"` into:

  * a resource named `NODE_SEA_BLOB` if the `node` binary is a [PE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portable_Executable) file
  * a section named `NODE_SEA_BLOB` in the `NODE_SEA` segment if the `node` binary is a [Mach-O](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mach-O) file
  * a note named `NODE_SEA_BLOB` if the `node` binary is an [ELF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Executable_and_Linkable_Format) file

Search the binary for the `NODE_SEA_FUSE_fce680ab2cc467b6e072b8b5df1996b2:0`
[fuse](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/latest/tutorial/fuses) string and flip
the last character to `1` to indicate that a resource has been injected.

#### Platform support#

Single-executable support is tested regularly on CI only on the following
platforms:

  * Windows
  * macOS
  * Linux (all distributions [supported by Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/main/BUILDING.md#platform-list) except Alpine and all architectures [supported by Node.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/main/BUILDING.md#platform-list) except s390x)

This is due to a lack of better tools to generate single-executables that can
be used to test this feature on other platforms.

Suggestions for other resource injection tools/workflows are welcomed. Please
start a discussion at <https://github.com/nodejs/single-
executable/discussions> to help us document them.

## SQLite#

Added in: v22.5.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development.

**Source Code:**
[lib/sqlite.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/sqlite.js)

The `node:sqlite` module facilitates working with SQLite databases. To access
it:

    
    
    import sqlite from 'node:sqlite';const sqlite = require('node:sqlite');copy

This module is only available under the `node:` scheme.

The following example shows the basic usage of the `node:sqlite` module to
open an in-memory database, write data to the database, and then read the data
back.

    
    
    import { DatabaseSync } from 'node:sqlite';
    const database = new DatabaseSync(':memory:');
    
    // Execute SQL statements from strings.
    database.exec(`
      CREATE TABLE data(
        key INTEGER PRIMARY KEY,
        value TEXT
      ) STRICT
    `);
    // Create a prepared statement to insert data into the database.
    const insert = database.prepare('INSERT INTO data (key, value) VALUES (?, ?)');
    // Execute the prepared statement with bound values.
    insert.run(1, 'hello');
    insert.run(2, 'world');
    // Create a prepared statement to read data from the database.
    const query = database.prepare('SELECT * FROM data ORDER BY key');
    // Execute the prepared statement and log the result set.
    console.log(query.all());
    // Prints: [ { key: 1, value: 'hello' }, { key: 2, value: 'world' } ]'use strict';
    const { DatabaseSync } = require('node:sqlite');
    const database = new DatabaseSync(':memory:');
    
    // Execute SQL statements from strings.
    database.exec(`
      CREATE TABLE data(
        key INTEGER PRIMARY KEY,
        value TEXT
      ) STRICT
    `);
    // Create a prepared statement to insert data into the database.
    const insert = database.prepare('INSERT INTO data (key, value) VALUES (?, ?)');
    // Execute the prepared statement with bound values.
    insert.run(1, 'hello');
    insert.run(2, 'world');
    // Create a prepared statement to read data from the database.
    const query = database.prepare('SELECT * FROM data ORDER BY key');
    // Execute the prepared statement and log the result set.
    console.log(query.all());
    // Prints: [ { key: 1, value: 'hello' }, { key: 2, value: 'world' } ]copy

### Class: `DatabaseSync`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.10.0 | The `path` argument now supports Buffer and URL objects.  
v22.5.0 | Added in: v22.5.0  
  
This class represents a single
[connection](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/sqlite3.html) to a SQLite database.
All APIs exposed by this class execute synchronously.

#### `new DatabaseSync(path[, options])`#

Added in: v22.5.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL> The path of the database. A SQLite database can be stored in a file or completely [in memory](https://www.sqlite.org/inmemorydb.html). To use a file-backed database, the path should be a file path. To use an in-memory database, the path should be the special name `':memory:'`.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Configuration options for the database connection. The following options are supported: 
    * `open` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, the database is opened by the constructor. When this value is `false`, the database must be opened via the `open()` method. **Default:** `true`.
    * `readOnly` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, the database is opened in read-only mode. If the database does not exist, opening it will fail. **Default:** `false`.
    * `enableForeignKeyConstraints` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, foreign key constraints are enabled. This is recommended but can be disabled for compatibility with legacy database schemas. The enforcement of foreign key constraints can be enabled and disabled after opening the database using [`PRAGMA foreign_keys`](https://www.sqlite.org/pragma.html#pragma_foreign_keys). **Default:** `true`.
    * `enableDoubleQuotedStringLiterals` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, SQLite will accept [double-quoted string literals](https://www.sqlite.org/quirks.html#dblquote). This is not recommended but can be enabled for compatibility with legacy database schemas. **Default:** `false`.
    * `allowExtension` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, the `loadExtension` SQL function and the `loadExtension()` method are enabled. You can call `enableLoadExtension(false)` later to disable this feature. **Default:** `false`.

Constructs a new `DatabaseSync` instance.

#### `database.close()`#

Added in: v22.5.0

Closes the database connection. An exception is thrown if the database is not
open. This method is a wrapper around
[`sqlite3_close_v2()`](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/close.html).

#### `database.loadExtension(path)`#

Added in: v23.5.0

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The path to the shared library to load.

Loads a shared library into the database connection. This method is a wrapper
around
[`sqlite3_load_extension()`](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/load_extension.html).
It is required to enable the `allowExtension` option when constructing the
`DatabaseSync` instance.

#### `database.enableLoadExtension(allow)`#

Added in: v23.5.0

  * `allow` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether to allow loading extensions.

Enables or disables the `loadExtension` SQL function, and the
`loadExtension()` method. When `allowExtension` is `false` when constructing,
you cannot enable loading extensions for security reasons.

#### `database.exec(sql)`#

Added in: v22.5.0

  * `sql` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A SQL string to execute.

This method allows one or more SQL statements to be executed without returning
any results. This method is useful when executing SQL statements read from a
file. This method is a wrapper around
[`sqlite3_exec()`](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/exec.html).

#### `database.function(name[, options], function)`#

Added in: v23.5.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The name of the SQLite function to create.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Optional configuration settings for the function. The following properties are supported: 
    * `deterministic` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, the [`SQLITE_DETERMINISTIC`](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/c_deterministic.html) flag is set on the created function. **Default:** `false`.
    * `directOnly` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, the [`SQLITE_DIRECTONLY`](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/c_deterministic.html) flag is set on the created function. **Default:** `false`.
    * `useBigIntArguments` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, integer arguments to `function` are converted to `BigInt`s. If `false`, integer arguments are passed as JavaScript numbers. **Default:** `false`.
    * `varargs` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, `function` may be invoked with any number of arguments (between zero and [`SQLITE_MAX_FUNCTION_ARG`](https://www.sqlite.org/limits.html#max_function_arg)). If `false`, `function` must be invoked with exactly `function.length` arguments. **Default:** `false`.
  * `function` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The JavaScript function to call when the SQLite function is invoked. The return value of this function should be a valid SQLite data type: see Type conversion between JavaScript and SQLite. The result defaults to `NULL` if the return value is `undefined`.

This method is used to create SQLite user-defined functions. This method is a
wrapper around
[`sqlite3_create_function_v2()`](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/create_function.html).

#### `database.open()`#

Added in: v22.5.0

Opens the database specified in the `path` argument of the `DatabaseSync`
constructor. This method should only be used when the database is not opened
via the constructor. An exception is thrown if the database is already open.

#### `database.prepare(sql)`#

Added in: v22.5.0

  * `sql` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A SQL string to compile to a prepared statement.
  * Returns: <StatementSync> The prepared statement.

Compiles a SQL statement into a [prepared
statement](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/stmt.html). This method is a wrapper
around [`sqlite3_prepare_v2()`](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/prepare.html).

#### `database.createSession([options])`#

Added in: v23.3.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The configuration options for the session. 
    * `table` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A specific table to track changes for. By default, changes to all tables are tracked.
    * `db` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of the database to track. This is useful when multiple databases have been added using [`ATTACH DATABASE`](https://www.sqlite.org/lang_attach.html). **Default** : `'main'`.
  * Returns: <Session> A session handle.

Creates and attaches a session to the database. This method is a wrapper
around
[`sqlite3session_create()`](https://www.sqlite.org/session/sqlite3session_create.html)
and
[`sqlite3session_attach()`](https://www.sqlite.org/session/sqlite3session_attach.html).

#### `database.applyChangeset(changeset[, options])`#

Added in: v23.3.0

  * `changeset` [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) A binary changeset or patchset.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The configuration options for how the changes will be applied. 
    * `filter` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Skip changes that, when targeted table name is supplied to this function, return a truthy value. By default, all changes are attempted.

    * `onConflict` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A function that determines how to handle conflicts. The function receives one argument, which can be one of the following values:

      * `SQLITE_CHANGESET_DATA`: A `DELETE` or `UPDATE` change does not contain the expected "before" values.
      * `SQLITE_CHANGESET_NOTFOUND`: A row matching the primary key of the `DELETE` or `UPDATE` change does not exist.
      * `SQLITE_CHANGESET_CONFLICT`: An `INSERT` change results in a duplicate primary key.
      * `SQLITE_CHANGESET_FOREIGN_KEY`: Applying a change would result in a foreign key violation.
      * `SQLITE_CHANGESET_CONSTRAINT`: Applying a change results in a `UNIQUE`, `CHECK`, or `NOT NULL` constraint violation.

The function should return one of the following values:

      * `SQLITE_CHANGESET_OMIT`: Omit conflicting changes.
      * `SQLITE_CHANGESET_REPLACE`: Replace existing values with conflicting changes (only valid with `SQLITE_CHANGESET_DATA` or `SQLITE_CHANGESET_CONFLICT` conflicts).
      * `SQLITE_CHANGESET_ABORT`: Abort on conflict and roll back the database.

When an error is thrown in the conflict handler or when any other value is
returned from the handler, applying the changeset is aborted and the database
is rolled back.

**Default** : A function that returns `SQLITE_CHANGESET_ABORT`.

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether the changeset was applied succesfully without being aborted.

An exception is thrown if the database is not open. This method is a wrapper
around
[`sqlite3changeset_apply()`](https://www.sqlite.org/session/sqlite3changeset_apply.html).

    
    
    const sourceDb = new DatabaseSync(':memory:');
    const targetDb = new DatabaseSync(':memory:');
    
    sourceDb.exec('CREATE TABLE data(key INTEGER PRIMARY KEY, value TEXT)');
    targetDb.exec('CREATE TABLE data(key INTEGER PRIMARY KEY, value TEXT)');
    
    const session = sourceDb.createSession();
    
    const insert = sourceDb.prepare('INSERT INTO data (key, value) VALUES (?, ?)');
    insert.run(1, 'hello');
    insert.run(2, 'world');
    
    const changeset = session.changeset();
    targetDb.applyChangeset(changeset);
    // Now that the changeset has been applied, targetDb contains the same data as sourceDb. copy

### Class: `Session`#

Added in: v23.3.0

#### `session.changeset()`#

Added in: v23.3.0

  * Returns: [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) Binary changeset that can be applied to other databases.

Retrieves a changeset containing all changes since the changeset was created.
Can be called multiple times. An exception is thrown if the database or the
session is not open. This method is a wrapper around
[`sqlite3session_changeset()`](https://www.sqlite.org/session/sqlite3session_changeset.html).

#### `session.patchset()`#

Added in: v23.3.0

  * Returns: [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) Binary patchset that can be applied to other databases.

Similar to the method above, but generates a more compact patchset. See
[Changesets and
Patchsets](https://www.sqlite.org/sessionintro.html#changesets_and_patchsets)
in the documentation of SQLite. An exception is thrown if the database or the
session is not open. This method is a wrapper around
[`sqlite3session_patchset()`](https://www.sqlite.org/session/sqlite3session_patchset.html).

#### `session.close()`.#

Closes the session. An exception is thrown if the database or the session is
not open. This method is a wrapper around
[`sqlite3session_delete()`](https://www.sqlite.org/session/sqlite3session_delete.html).

### Class: `StatementSync`#

Added in: v22.5.0

This class represents a single [prepared
statement](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/stmt.html). This class cannot be
instantiated via its constructor. Instead, instances are created via the
`database.prepare()` method. All APIs exposed by this class execute
synchronously.

A prepared statement is an efficient binary representation of the SQL used to
create it. Prepared statements are parameterizable, and can be invoked
multiple times with different bound values. Parameters also offer protection
against [SQL injection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQL_injection) attacks.
For these reasons, prepared statements are preferred over hand-crafted SQL
strings when handling user input.

#### `statement.all([namedParameters][, ...anonymousParameters])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.7.0 | Add support for `DataView` and typed array objects for `anonymousParameters`.  
v22.5.0 | Added in: v22.5.0  
  
  * `namedParameters` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An optional object used to bind named parameters. The keys of this object are used to configure the mapping.
  * `...anonymousParameters` [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) Zero or more values to bind to anonymous parameters.
  * Returns: [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array of objects. Each object corresponds to a row returned by executing the prepared statement. The keys and values of each object correspond to the column names and values of the row.

This method executes a prepared statement and returns all results as an array
of objects. If the prepared statement does not return any results, this method
returns an empty array. The prepared statement [parameters are
bound](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/bind_blob.html) using the values in
`namedParameters` and `anonymousParameters`.

#### `statement.expandedSQL`#

Added in: v22.5.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The source SQL expanded to include parameter values.

The source SQL text of the prepared statement with parameter placeholders
replaced by the values that were used during the most recent execution of this
prepared statement. This property is a wrapper around
[`sqlite3_expanded_sql()`](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/expanded_sql.html).

#### `statement.get([namedParameters][, ...anonymousParameters])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.7.0 | Add support for `DataView` and typed array objects for `anonymousParameters`.  
v22.5.0 | Added in: v22.5.0  
  
  * `namedParameters` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An optional object used to bind named parameters. The keys of this object are used to configure the mapping.
  * `...anonymousParameters` [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) Zero or more values to bind to anonymous parameters.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) An object corresponding to the first row returned by executing the prepared statement. The keys and values of the object correspond to the column names and values of the row. If no rows were returned from the database then this method returns `undefined`.

This method executes a prepared statement and returns the first result as an
object. If the prepared statement does not return any results, this method
returns `undefined`. The prepared statement [parameters are
bound](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/bind_blob.html) using the values in
`namedParameters` and `anonymousParameters`.

#### `statement.iterate([namedParameters][, ...anonymousParameters])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.7.0 | Add support for `DataView` and typed array objects for `anonymousParameters`.  
v23.4.0 | Added in: v23.4.0  
  
  * `namedParameters` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An optional object used to bind named parameters. The keys of this object are used to configure the mapping.
  * `...anonymousParameters` [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) Zero or more values to bind to anonymous parameters.
  * Returns: [<Iterator>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterator_protocol) An iterable iterator of objects. Each object corresponds to a row returned by executing the prepared statement. The keys and values of each object correspond to the column names and values of the row.

This method executes a prepared statement and returns an iterator of objects.
If the prepared statement does not return any results, this method returns an
empty iterator. The prepared statement [parameters are
bound](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/bind_blob.html) using the values in
`namedParameters` and `anonymousParameters`.

#### `statement.run([namedParameters][, ...anonymousParameters])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.7.0 | Add support for `DataView` and typed array objects for `anonymousParameters`.  
v22.5.0 | Added in: v22.5.0  
  
  * `namedParameters` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An optional object used to bind named parameters. The keys of this object are used to configure the mapping.
  * `...anonymousParameters` [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) Zero or more values to bind to anonymous parameters.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `changes`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) The number of rows modified, inserted, or deleted by the most recently completed `INSERT`, `UPDATE`, or `DELETE` statement. This field is either a number or a `BigInt` depending on the prepared statement's configuration. This property is the result of [`sqlite3_changes64()`](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/changes.html).
    * `lastInsertRowid`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt) The most recently inserted rowid. This field is either a number or a `BigInt` depending on the prepared statement's configuration. This property is the result of [`sqlite3_last_insert_rowid()`](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/last_insert_rowid.html).

This method executes a prepared statement and returns an object summarizing
the resulting changes. The prepared statement [parameters are
bound](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/bind_blob.html) using the values in
`namedParameters` and `anonymousParameters`.

#### `statement.setAllowBareNamedParameters(enabled)`#

Added in: v22.5.0

  * `enabled` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Enables or disables support for binding named parameters without the prefix character.

The names of SQLite parameters begin with a prefix character. By default,
`node:sqlite` requires that this prefix character is present when binding
parameters. However, with the exception of dollar sign character, these prefix
characters also require extra quoting when used in object keys.

To improve ergonomics, this method can be used to also allow bare named
parameters, which do not require the prefix character in JavaScript code.
There are several caveats to be aware of when enabling bare named parameters:

  * The prefix character is still required in SQL.
  * The prefix character is still allowed in JavaScript. In fact, prefixed names will have slightly better binding performance.
  * Using ambiguous named parameters, such as `$k` and `@k`, in the same prepared statement will result in an exception as it cannot be determined how to bind a bare name.

#### `statement.setReadBigInts(enabled)`#

Added in: v22.5.0

  * `enabled` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Enables or disables the use of `BigInt`s when reading `INTEGER` fields from the database.

When reading from the database, SQLite `INTEGER`s are mapped to JavaScript
numbers by default. However, SQLite `INTEGER`s can store values larger than
JavaScript numbers are capable of representing. In such cases, this method can
be used to read `INTEGER` data using JavaScript `BigInt`s. This method has no
impact on database write operations where numbers and `BigInt`s are both
supported at all times.

#### `statement.sourceSQL`#

Added in: v22.5.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The source SQL used to create this prepared statement.

The source SQL text of the prepared statement. This property is a wrapper
around [`sqlite3_sql()`](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/expanded_sql.html).

#### Type conversion between JavaScript and SQLite#

When Node.js writes to or reads from SQLite it is necessary to convert between
JavaScript data types and SQLite's [data
types](https://www.sqlite.org/datatype3.html). Because JavaScript supports
more data types than SQLite, only a subset of JavaScript types are supported.
Attempting to write an unsupported data type to SQLite will result in an
exception.

SQLite| JavaScript  
---|---  
`NULL`| [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type)  
`INTEGER`| [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) or
[<bigint>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt)  
`REAL`| [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)  
`TEXT`| [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)  
`BLOB`| [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) or
[<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)  
  
### `sqlite.backup(sourceDb, path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.10.0 | The `path` argument now supports Buffer and URL objects.  
v23.8.0 | Added in: v23.8.0  
  
  * `sourceDb` <DatabaseSync> The database to backup. The source database must be open.
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <URL> The path where the backup will be created. If the file already exists, the contents will be overwritten.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Optional configuration for the backup. The following properties are supported: 
    * `source` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of the source database. This can be `'main'` (the default primary database) or any other database that have been added with [`ATTACH DATABASE`](https://www.sqlite.org/lang_attach.html) **Default:** `'main'`.
    * `target` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of the target database. This can be `'main'` (the default primary database) or any other database that have been added with [`ATTACH DATABASE`](https://www.sqlite.org/lang_attach.html) **Default:** `'main'`.
    * `rate` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of pages to be transmitted in each batch of the backup. **Default:** `100`.
    * `progress` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Callback function that will be called with the number of pages copied and the total number of pages.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) A promise that resolves when the backup is completed and rejects if an error occurs.

This method makes a database backup. This method abstracts the
[`sqlite3_backup_init()`](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/backup_finish.html#sqlite3backupinit),
[`sqlite3_backup_step()`](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/backup_finish.html#sqlite3backupstep)
and
[`sqlite3_backup_finish()`](https://www.sqlite.org/c3ref/backup_finish.html#sqlite3backupfinish)
functions.

The backed-up database can be used normally during the backup process.
Mutations coming from the same connection - same <DatabaseSync> \- object will
be reflected in the backup right away. However, mutations from other
connections will cause the backup process to restart.

    
    
    const { backup, DatabaseSync } = require('node:sqlite');
    
    (async () => {
      const sourceDb = new DatabaseSync('source.db');
      const totalPagesTransferred = await backup(sourceDb, 'backup.db', {
        rate: 1, // Copy one page at a time.
        progress: ({ totalPages, remainingPages }) => {
          console.log('Backup in progress', { totalPages, remainingPages });
        },
      });
    
      console.log('Backup completed', totalPagesTransferred);
    })();import { backup, DatabaseSync } from 'node:sqlite';
    
    const sourceDb = new DatabaseSync('source.db');
    const totalPagesTransferred = await backup(sourceDb, 'backup.db', {
      rate: 1, // Copy one page at a time.
      progress: ({ totalPages, remainingPages }) => {
        console.log('Backup in progress', { totalPages, remainingPages });
      },
    });
    
    console.log('Backup completed', totalPagesTransferred);copy

### `sqlite.constants`#

Added in: v23.5.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

An object containing commonly used constants for SQLite operations.

#### SQLite constants#

The following constants are exported by the `sqlite.constants` object.

##### Conflict resolution constants#

One of the following constants is available as an argument to the `onConflict`
conflict resolution handler passed to `database.applyChangeset()`. See also
[Constants Passed To The Conflict
Handler](https://www.sqlite.org/session/c_changeset_conflict.html) in the
SQLite documentation.

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`SQLITE_CHANGESET_DATA` | The conflict handler is invoked with this constant when processing a DELETE or UPDATE change if a row with the required PRIMARY KEY fields is present in the database, but one or more other (non primary-key) fields modified by the update do not contain the expected "before" values.  
`SQLITE_CHANGESET_NOTFOUND` | The conflict handler is invoked with this constant when processing a DELETE or UPDATE change if a row with the required PRIMARY KEY fields is not present in the database.  
`SQLITE_CHANGESET_CONFLICT` | This constant is passed to the conflict handler while processing an INSERT change if the operation would result in duplicate primary key values.  
`SQLITE_CHANGESET_CONSTRAINT` | If foreign key handling is enabled, and applying a changeset leaves the database in a state containing foreign key violations, the conflict handler is invoked with this constant exactly once before the changeset is committed. If the conflict handler returns `SQLITE_CHANGESET_OMIT`, the changes, including those that caused the foreign key constraint violation, are committed. Or, if it returns `SQLITE_CHANGESET_ABORT`, the changeset is rolled back.  
`SQLITE_CHANGESET_FOREIGN_KEY` | If any other constraint violation occurs while applying a change (i.e. a UNIQUE, CHECK or NOT NULL constraint), the conflict handler is invoked with this constant.  
  
One of the following constants must be returned from the `onConflict` conflict
resolution handler passed to `database.applyChangeset()`. See also [Constants
Returned From The Conflict
Handler](https://www.sqlite.org/session/c_changeset_abort.html) in the SQLite
documentation.

Constant | Description  
---|---  
`SQLITE_CHANGESET_OMIT` | Conflicting changes are omitted.  
`SQLITE_CHANGESET_REPLACE` | Conflicting changes replace existing values. Note that this value can only be returned when the type of conflict is either `SQLITE_CHANGESET_DATA` or `SQLITE_CHANGESET_CONFLICT`.  
`SQLITE_CHANGESET_ABORT` | Abort when a change encounters a conflict and roll back database.  
  
##
Stream[[src]](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/39e295dca5e13316cded152225523e0ba8741140/lib/stream.js#L55)#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/stream.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/stream.js)

A stream is an abstract interface for working with streaming data in Node.js.
The `node:stream` module provides an API for implementing the stream
interface.

There are many stream objects provided by Node.js. For instance, a request to
an HTTP server and `process.stdout` are both stream instances.

Streams can be readable, writable, or both. All streams are instances of
`EventEmitter`.

To access the `node:stream` module:

    
    
    const stream = require('node:stream'); copy

The `node:stream` module is useful for creating new types of stream instances.
It is usually not necessary to use the `node:stream` module to consume
streams.

### Organization of this document#

This document contains two primary sections and a third section for notes. The
first section explains how to use existing streams within an application. The
second section explains how to create new types of streams.

### Types of streams#

There are four fundamental stream types within Node.js:

  * `Writable`: streams to which data can be written (for example, `fs.createWriteStream()`).
  * `Readable`: streams from which data can be read (for example, `fs.createReadStream()`).
  * `Duplex`: streams that are both `Readable` and `Writable` (for example, `net.Socket`).
  * `Transform`: `Duplex` streams that can modify or transform the data as it is written and read (for example, `zlib.createDeflate()`).

Additionally, this module includes the utility functions
`stream.duplexPair()`, `stream.pipeline()`, `stream.finished()`
`stream.Readable.from()`, and `stream.addAbortSignal()`.

#### Streams Promises API#

Added in: v15.0.0

The `stream/promises` API provides an alternative set of asynchronous utility
functions for streams that return `Promise` objects rather than using
callbacks. The API is accessible via `require('node:stream/promises')` or
`require('node:stream').promises`.

#### `stream.pipeline(source[, ...transforms], destination[, options])`#

#### `stream.pipeline(streams[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0, v17.2.0, v16.14.0 | Add the `end` option, which can be set to `false` to prevent automatically closing the destination stream when the source ends.  
v15.0.0 | Added in: v15.0.0  
  
  * `streams` <Stream[]> | [<Iterable[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterable_protocol) | [<AsyncIterable[]>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface) | [<Function[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * `source` <Stream> | [<Iterable>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterable_protocol) | [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface) | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) | [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface)
  * `...transforms` <Stream> | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `source` [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface)
    * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) | [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface)
  * `destination` <Stream> | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `source` [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface)
    * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) | [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Pipeline options 
    * `signal` <AbortSignal>
    * `end` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) End the destination stream when the source stream ends. Transform streams are always ended, even if this value is `false`. **Default:** `true`.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills when the pipeline is complete.

    
    
    const { pipeline } = require('node:stream/promises');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const zlib = require('node:zlib');
    
    async function run() {
      await pipeline(
        fs.createReadStream('archive.tar'),
        zlib.createGzip(),
        fs.createWriteStream('archive.tar.gz'),
      );
      console.log('Pipeline succeeded.');
    }
    
    run().catch(console.error);import { pipeline } from 'node:stream/promises';
    import { createReadStream, createWriteStream } from 'node:fs';
    import { createGzip } from 'node:zlib';
    
    await pipeline(
      createReadStream('archive.tar'),
      createGzip(),
      createWriteStream('archive.tar.gz'),
    );
    console.log('Pipeline succeeded.');copy

To use an `AbortSignal`, pass it inside an options object, as the last
argument. When the signal is aborted, `destroy` will be called on the
underlying pipeline, with an `AbortError`.

    
    
    const { pipeline } = require('node:stream/promises');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const zlib = require('node:zlib');
    
    async function run() {
      const ac = new AbortController();
      const signal = ac.signal;
    
      setImmediate(() => ac.abort());
      await pipeline(
        fs.createReadStream('archive.tar'),
        zlib.createGzip(),
        fs.createWriteStream('archive.tar.gz'),
        { signal },
      );
    }
    
    run().catch(console.error); // AbortErrorimport { pipeline } from 'node:stream/promises';
    import { createReadStream, createWriteStream } from 'node:fs';
    import { createGzip } from 'node:zlib';
    
    const ac = new AbortController();
    const { signal } = ac;
    setImmediate(() => ac.abort());
    try {
      await pipeline(
        createReadStream('archive.tar'),
        createGzip(),
        createWriteStream('archive.tar.gz'),
        { signal },
      );
    } catch (err) {
      console.error(err); // AbortError
    }copy

The `pipeline` API also supports async generators:

    
    
    const { pipeline } = require('node:stream/promises');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    async function run() {
      await pipeline(
        fs.createReadStream('lowercase.txt'),
        async function* (source, { signal }) {
          source.setEncoding('utf8');  // Work with strings rather than `Buffer`s.
          for await (const chunk of source) {
            yield await processChunk(chunk, { signal });
          }
        },
        fs.createWriteStream('uppercase.txt'),
      );
      console.log('Pipeline succeeded.');
    }
    
    run().catch(console.error);import { pipeline } from 'node:stream/promises';
    import { createReadStream, createWriteStream } from 'node:fs';
    
    await pipeline(
      createReadStream('lowercase.txt'),
      async function* (source, { signal }) {
        source.setEncoding('utf8');  // Work with strings rather than `Buffer`s.
        for await (const chunk of source) {
          yield await processChunk(chunk, { signal });
        }
      },
      createWriteStream('uppercase.txt'),
    );
    console.log('Pipeline succeeded.');copy

Remember to handle the `signal` argument passed into the async generator.
Especially in the case where the async generator is the source for the
pipeline (i.e. first argument) or the pipeline will never complete.

    
    
    const { pipeline } = require('node:stream/promises');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    async function run() {
      await pipeline(
        async function* ({ signal }) {
          await someLongRunningfn({ signal });
          yield 'asd';
        },
        fs.createWriteStream('uppercase.txt'),
      );
      console.log('Pipeline succeeded.');
    }
    
    run().catch(console.error);import { pipeline } from 'node:stream/promises';
    import fs from 'node:fs';
    await pipeline(
      async function* ({ signal }) {
        await someLongRunningfn({ signal });
        yield 'asd';
      },
      fs.createWriteStream('uppercase.txt'),
    );
    console.log('Pipeline succeeded.');copy

The `pipeline` API provides callback version:

#### `stream.finished(stream[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.5.0, v18.14.0 | Added support for `ReadableStream` and `WritableStream`.  
v19.1.0, v18.13.0 | The `cleanup` option was added.  
v15.0.0 | Added in: v15.0.0  
  
  * `stream` <Stream> | <ReadableStream> | <WritableStream> A readable and/or writable stream/webstream.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `error` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)
    * `readable` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)
    * `writable` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)
    * `cleanup` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) If `true`, removes the listeners registered by this function before the promise is fulfilled. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills when the stream is no longer readable or writable.

    
    
    const { finished } = require('node:stream/promises');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    const rs = fs.createReadStream('archive.tar');
    
    async function run() {
      await finished(rs);
      console.log('Stream is done reading.');
    }
    
    run().catch(console.error);
    rs.resume(); // Drain the stream.import { finished } from 'node:stream/promises';
    import { createReadStream } from 'node:fs';
    
    const rs = createReadStream('archive.tar');
    
    async function run() {
      await finished(rs);
      console.log('Stream is done reading.');
    }
    
    run().catch(console.error);
    rs.resume(); // Drain the stream.copy

The `finished` API also provides a callback version.

`stream.finished()` leaves dangling event listeners (in particular `'error'`,
`'end'`, `'finish'` and `'close'`) after the returned promise is resolved or
rejected. The reason for this is so that unexpected `'error'` events (due to
incorrect stream implementations) do not cause unexpected crashes. If this is
unwanted behavior then `options.cleanup` should be set to `true`:

    
    
    await finished(rs, { cleanup: true }); copy

#### Object mode#

All streams created by Node.js APIs operate exclusively on strings, <Buffer>,
[<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) and
[<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) objects:

  * `Strings` and `Buffers` are the most common types used with streams.
  * `TypedArray` and `DataView` lets you handle binary data with types like `Int32Array` or `Uint8Array`. When you write a TypedArray or DataView to a stream, Node.js processes the raw bytes.

It is possible, however, for stream implementations to work with other types
of JavaScript values (with the exception of `null`, which serves a special
purpose within streams). Such streams are considered to operate in "object
mode".

Stream instances are switched into object mode using the `objectMode` option
when the stream is created. Attempting to switch an existing stream into
object mode is not safe.

#### Buffering#

Both `Writable` and `Readable` streams will store data in an internal buffer.

The amount of data potentially buffered depends on the `highWaterMark` option
passed into the stream's constructor. For normal streams, the `highWaterMark`
option specifies a total number of bytes. For streams operating in object
mode, the `highWaterMark` specifies a total number of objects. For streams
operating on (but not decoding) strings, the `highWaterMark` specifies a total
number of UTF-16 code units.

Data is buffered in `Readable` streams when the implementation calls
`stream.push(chunk)`. If the consumer of the Stream does not call
`stream.read()`, the data will sit in the internal queue until it is consumed.

Once the total size of the internal read buffer reaches the threshold
specified by `highWaterMark`, the stream will temporarily stop reading data
from the underlying resource until the data currently buffered can be consumed
(that is, the stream will stop calling the internal `readable._read()` method
that is used to fill the read buffer).

Data is buffered in `Writable` streams when the `writable.write(chunk)` method
is called repeatedly. While the total size of the internal write buffer is
below the threshold set by `highWaterMark`, calls to `writable.write()` will
return `true`. Once the size of the internal buffer reaches or exceeds the
`highWaterMark`, `false` will be returned.

A key goal of the `stream` API, particularly the `stream.pipe()` method, is to
limit the buffering of data to acceptable levels such that sources and
destinations of differing speeds will not overwhelm the available memory.

The `highWaterMark` option is a threshold, not a limit: it dictates the amount
of data that a stream buffers before it stops asking for more data. It does
not enforce a strict memory limitation in general. Specific stream
implementations may choose to enforce stricter limits but doing so is
optional.

Because `Duplex` and `Transform` streams are both `Readable` and `Writable`,
each maintains _two_ separate internal buffers used for reading and writing,
allowing each side to operate independently of the other while maintaining an
appropriate and efficient flow of data. For example, `net.Socket` instances
are `Duplex` streams whose `Readable` side allows consumption of data received
_from_ the socket and whose `Writable` side allows writing data _to_ the
socket. Because data may be written to the socket at a faster or slower rate
than data is received, each side should operate (and buffer) independently of
the other.

The mechanics of the internal buffering are an internal implementation detail
and may be changed at any time. However, for certain advanced implementations,
the internal buffers can be retrieved using `writable.writableBuffer` or
`readable.readableBuffer`. Use of these undocumented properties is
discouraged.

### API for stream consumers#

Almost all Node.js applications, no matter how simple, use streams in some
manner. The following is an example of using streams in a Node.js application
that implements an HTTP server:

    
    
    const http = require('node:http');
    
    const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
      // `req` is an http.IncomingMessage, which is a readable stream.
      // `res` is an http.ServerResponse, which is a writable stream.
    
      let body = '';
      // Get the data as utf8 strings.
      // If an encoding is not set, Buffer objects will be received.
      req.setEncoding('utf8');
    
      // Readable streams emit 'data' events once a listener is added.
      req.on('data', (chunk) => {
        body += chunk;
      });
    
      // The 'end' event indicates that the entire body has been received.
      req.on('end', () => {
        try {
          const data = JSON.parse(body);
          // Write back something interesting to the user:
          res.write(typeof data);
          res.end();
        } catch (er) {
          // uh oh! bad json!
          res.statusCode = 400;
          return res.end(`error: ${er.message}`);
        }
      });
    });
    
    server.listen(1337);
    
    // $ curl localhost:1337 -d "{}"
    // object
    // $ curl localhost:1337 -d "\"foo\""
    // string
    // $ curl localhost:1337 -d "not json"
    // error: Unexpected token 'o', "not json" is not valid JSON copy

`Writable` streams (such as `res` in the example) expose methods such as
`write()` and `end()` that are used to write data onto the stream.

`Readable` streams use the `EventEmitter` API for notifying application code
when data is available to be read off the stream. That available data can be
read from the stream in multiple ways.

Both `Writable` and `Readable` streams use the `EventEmitter` API in various
ways to communicate the current state of the stream.

`Duplex` and `Transform` streams are both `Writable` and `Readable`.

Applications that are either writing data to or consuming data from a stream
are not required to implement the stream interfaces directly and will
generally have no reason to call `require('node:stream')`.

Developers wishing to implement new types of streams should refer to the
section API for stream implementers.

#### Writable streams#

Writable streams are an abstraction for a _destination_ to which data is
written.

Examples of `Writable` streams include:

  * HTTP requests, on the client
  * HTTP responses, on the server
  * fs write streams
  * [zlib streams](zlib.html)
  * [crypto streams](crypto.html)
  * TCP sockets
  * child process stdin
  * `process.stdout`, `process.stderr`

Some of these examples are actually `Duplex` streams that implement the
`Writable` interface.

All `Writable` streams implement the interface defined by the
`stream.Writable` class.

While specific instances of `Writable` streams may differ in various ways, all
`Writable` streams follow the same fundamental usage pattern as illustrated in
the example below:

    
    
    const myStream = getWritableStreamSomehow();
    myStream.write('some data');
    myStream.write('some more data');
    myStream.end('done writing data'); copy

##### Class: `stream.Writable`#

Added in: v0.9.4

###### Event: `'close'`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Add `emitClose` option to specify if `'close'` is emitted on destroy.  
v0.9.4 | Added in: v0.9.4  
  
The `'close'` event is emitted when the stream and any of its underlying
resources (a file descriptor, for example) have been closed. The event
indicates that no more events will be emitted, and no further computation will
occur.

A `Writable` stream will always emit the `'close'` event if it is created with
the `emitClose` option.

###### Event: `'drain'`#

Added in: v0.9.4

If a call to `stream.write(chunk)` returns `false`, the `'drain'` event will
be emitted when it is appropriate to resume writing data to the stream.

    
    
    // Write the data to the supplied writable stream one million times.
    // Be attentive to back-pressure.
    function writeOneMillionTimes(writer, data, encoding, callback) {
      let i = 1000000;
      write();
      function write() {
        let ok = true;
        do {
          i--;
          if (i === 0) {
            // Last time!
            writer.write(data, encoding, callback);
          } else {
            // See if we should continue, or wait.
            // Don't pass the callback, because we're not done yet.
            ok = writer.write(data, encoding);
          }
        } while (i > 0 && ok);
        if (i > 0) {
          // Had to stop early!
          // Write some more once it drains.
          writer.once('drain', write);
        }
      }
    } copy

###### Event: `'error'`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

The `'error'` event is emitted if an error occurred while writing or piping
data. The listener callback is passed a single `Error` argument when called.

The stream is closed when the `'error'` event is emitted unless the
`autoDestroy` option was set to `false` when creating the stream.

After `'error'`, no further events other than `'close'` _should_ be emitted
(including `'error'` events).

###### Event: `'finish'`#

Added in: v0.9.4

The `'finish'` event is emitted after the `stream.end()` method has been
called, and all data has been flushed to the underlying system.

    
    
    const writer = getWritableStreamSomehow();
    for (let i = 0; i < 100; i++) {
      writer.write(`hello, #${i}!\n`);
    }
    writer.on('finish', () => {
      console.log('All writes are now complete.');
    });
    writer.end('This is the end\n'); copy

###### Event: `'pipe'`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * `src` <stream.Readable> source stream that is piping to this writable

The `'pipe'` event is emitted when the `stream.pipe()` method is called on a
readable stream, adding this writable to its set of destinations.

    
    
    const writer = getWritableStreamSomehow();
    const reader = getReadableStreamSomehow();
    writer.on('pipe', (src) => {
      console.log('Something is piping into the writer.');
      assert.equal(src, reader);
    });
    reader.pipe(writer); copy

###### Event: `'unpipe'`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * `src` <stream.Readable> The source stream that unpiped this writable

The `'unpipe'` event is emitted when the `stream.unpipe()` method is called on
a `Readable` stream, removing this `Writable` from its set of destinations.

This is also emitted in case this `Writable` stream emits an error when a
`Readable` stream pipes into it.

    
    
    const writer = getWritableStreamSomehow();
    const reader = getReadableStreamSomehow();
    writer.on('unpipe', (src) => {
      console.log('Something has stopped piping into the writer.');
      assert.equal(src, reader);
    });
    reader.pipe(writer);
    reader.unpipe(writer); copy

###### `writable.cork()`#

Added in: v0.11.2

The `writable.cork()` method forces all written data to be buffered in memory.
The buffered data will be flushed when either the `stream.uncork()` or
`stream.end()` methods are called.

The primary intent of `writable.cork()` is to accommodate a situation in which
several small chunks are written to the stream in rapid succession. Instead of
immediately forwarding them to the underlying destination, `writable.cork()`
buffers all the chunks until `writable.uncork()` is called, which will pass
them all to `writable._writev()`, if present. This prevents a head-of-line
blocking situation where data is being buffered while waiting for the first
small chunk to be processed. However, use of `writable.cork()` without
implementing `writable._writev()` may have an adverse effect on throughput.

See also: `writable.uncork()`, `writable._writev()`.

###### `writable.destroy([error])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | Work as a no-op on a stream that has already been destroyed.  
v8.0.0 | Added in: v8.0.0  
  
  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) Optional, an error to emit with `'error'` event.
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

Destroy the stream. Optionally emit an `'error'` event, and emit a `'close'`
event (unless `emitClose` is set to `false`). After this call, the writable
stream has ended and subsequent calls to `write()` or `end()` will result in
an `ERR_STREAM_DESTROYED` error. This is a destructive and immediate way to
destroy a stream. Previous calls to `write()` may not have drained, and may
trigger an `ERR_STREAM_DESTROYED` error. Use `end()` instead of destroy if
data should flush before close, or wait for the `'drain'` event before
destroying the stream.

    
    
    const { Writable } = require('node:stream');
    
    const myStream = new Writable();
    
    const fooErr = new Error('foo error');
    myStream.destroy(fooErr);
    myStream.on('error', (fooErr) => console.error(fooErr.message)); // foo error copy
    
    
    const { Writable } = require('node:stream');
    
    const myStream = new Writable();
    
    myStream.destroy();
    myStream.on('error', function wontHappen() {}); copy
    
    
    const { Writable } = require('node:stream');
    
    const myStream = new Writable();
    myStream.destroy();
    
    myStream.write('foo', (error) => console.error(error.code));
    // ERR_STREAM_DESTROYED copy

Once `destroy()` has been called any further calls will be a no-op and no
further errors except from `_destroy()` may be emitted as `'error'`.

Implementors should not override this method, but instead implement
`writable._destroy()`.

###### `writable.closed`#

Added in: v18.0.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` after `'close'` has been emitted.

###### `writable.destroyed`#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` after `writable.destroy()` has been called.

    
    
    const { Writable } = require('node:stream');
    
    const myStream = new Writable();
    
    console.log(myStream.destroyed); // false
    myStream.destroy();
    console.log(myStream.destroyed); // true copy

###### `writable.end([chunk[, encoding]][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0, v20.13.0 | The `chunk` argument can now be a `TypedArray` or `DataView` instance.  
v15.0.0 | The `callback` is invoked before 'finish' or on error.  
v14.0.0 | The `callback` is invoked if 'finish' or 'error' is emitted.  
v10.0.0 | This method now returns a reference to `writable`.  
v8.0.0 | The `chunk` argument can now be a `Uint8Array` instance.  
v0.9.4 | Added in: v0.9.4  
  
  * `chunk` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Optional data to write. For streams not operating in object mode, `chunk` must be a [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type), <Buffer>, [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) or [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView). For object mode streams, `chunk` may be any JavaScript value other than `null`.
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding if `chunk` is a string
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Callback for when the stream is finished.
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

Calling the `writable.end()` method signals that no more data will be written
to the `Writable`. The optional `chunk` and `encoding` arguments allow one
final additional chunk of data to be written immediately before closing the
stream.

Calling the `stream.write()` method after calling `stream.end()` will raise an
error.

    
    
    // Write 'hello, ' and then end with 'world!'.
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const file = fs.createWriteStream('example.txt');
    file.write('hello, ');
    file.end('world!');
    // Writing more now is not allowed! copy

###### `writable.setDefaultEncoding(encoding)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.1.0 | This method now returns a reference to `writable`.  
v0.11.15 | Added in: v0.11.15  
  
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The new default encoding
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

The `writable.setDefaultEncoding()` method sets the default `encoding` for a
`Writable` stream.

###### `writable.uncork()`#

Added in: v0.11.2

The `writable.uncork()` method flushes all data buffered since `stream.cork()`
was called.

When using `writable.cork()` and `writable.uncork()` to manage the buffering
of writes to a stream, defer calls to `writable.uncork()` using
`process.nextTick()`. Doing so allows batching of all `writable.write()` calls
that occur within a given Node.js event loop phase.

    
    
    stream.cork();
    stream.write('some ');
    stream.write('data ');
    process.nextTick(() => stream.uncork()); copy

If the `writable.cork()` method is called multiple times on a stream, the same
number of calls to `writable.uncork()` must be called to flush the buffered
data.

    
    
    stream.cork();
    stream.write('some ');
    stream.cork();
    stream.write('data ');
    process.nextTick(() => {
      stream.uncork();
      // The data will not be flushed until uncork() is called a second time.
      stream.uncork();
    }); copy

See also: `writable.cork()`.

###### `writable.writable`#

Added in: v11.4.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` if it is safe to call `writable.write()`, which means the stream has
not been destroyed, errored, or ended.

###### `writable.writableAborted`#

Added in: v18.0.0, v16.17.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns whether the stream was destroyed or errored before emitting
`'finish'`.

###### `writable.writableEnded`#

Added in: v12.9.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` after `writable.end()` has been called. This property does not
indicate whether the data has been flushed, for this use
`writable.writableFinished` instead.

###### `writable.writableCorked`#

Added in: v13.2.0, v12.16.0

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Number of times `writable.uncork()` needs to be called in order to fully
uncork the stream.

###### `writable.errored`#

Added in: v18.0.0

  * [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Returns error if the stream has been destroyed with an error.

###### `writable.writableFinished`#

Added in: v12.6.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is set to `true` immediately before the `'finish'` event is emitted.

###### `writable.writableHighWaterMark`#

Added in: v9.3.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Return the value of `highWaterMark` passed when creating this `Writable`.

###### `writable.writableLength`#

Added in: v9.4.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

This property contains the number of bytes (or objects) in the queue ready to
be written. The value provides introspection data regarding the status of the
`highWaterMark`.

###### `writable.writableNeedDrain`#

Added in: v15.2.0, v14.17.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` if the stream's buffer has been full and stream will emit `'drain'`.

###### `writable.writableObjectMode`#

Added in: v12.3.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Getter for the property `objectMode` of a given `Writable` stream.

###### `writable[Symbol.asyncDispose]()`#

Added in: v22.4.0, v20.16.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Calls `writable.destroy()` with an `AbortError` and returns a promise that
fulfills when the stream is finished.

###### `writable.write(chunk[, encoding][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0, v20.13.0 | The `chunk` argument can now be a `TypedArray` or `DataView` instance.  
v8.0.0 | The `chunk` argument can now be a `Uint8Array` instance.  
v6.0.0 | Passing `null` as the `chunk` parameter will always be considered invalid now, even in object mode.  
v0.9.4 | Added in: v0.9.4  
  
  * `chunk` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Optional data to write. For streams not operating in object mode, `chunk` must be a [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type), <Buffer>, [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) or [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView). For object mode streams, `chunk` may be any JavaScript value other than `null`.
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) The encoding, if `chunk` is a string. **Default:** `'utf8'`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Callback for when this chunk of data is flushed.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `false` if the stream wishes for the calling code to wait for the `'drain'` event to be emitted before continuing to write additional data; otherwise `true`.

The `writable.write()` method writes some data to the stream, and calls the
supplied `callback` once the data has been fully handled. If an error occurs,
the `callback` will be called with the error as its first argument. The
`callback` is called asynchronously and before `'error'` is emitted.

The return value is `true` if the internal buffer is less than the
`highWaterMark` configured when the stream was created after admitting
`chunk`. If `false` is returned, further attempts to write data to the stream
should stop until the `'drain'` event is emitted.

While a stream is not draining, calls to `write()` will buffer `chunk`, and
return false. Once all currently buffered chunks are drained (accepted for
delivery by the operating system), the `'drain'` event will be emitted. Once
`write()` returns false, do not write more chunks until the `'drain'` event is
emitted. While calling `write()` on a stream that is not draining is allowed,
Node.js will buffer all written chunks until maximum memory usage occurs, at
which point it will abort unconditionally. Even before it aborts, high memory
usage will cause poor garbage collector performance and high RSS (which is not
typically released back to the system, even after the memory is no longer
required). Since TCP sockets may never drain if the remote peer does not read
the data, writing a socket that is not draining may lead to a remotely
exploitable vulnerability.

Writing data while the stream is not draining is particularly problematic for
a `Transform`, because the `Transform` streams are paused by default until
they are piped or a `'data'` or `'readable'` event handler is added.

If the data to be written can be generated or fetched on demand, it is
recommended to encapsulate the logic into a `Readable` and use
`stream.pipe()`. However, if calling `write()` is preferred, it is possible to
respect backpressure and avoid memory issues using the `'drain'` event:

    
    
    function write(data, cb) {
      if (!stream.write(data)) {
        stream.once('drain', cb);
      } else {
        process.nextTick(cb);
      }
    }
    
    // Wait for cb to be called before doing any other write.
    write('hello', () => {
      console.log('Write completed, do more writes now.');
    }); copy

A `Writable` stream in object mode will always ignore the `encoding` argument.

#### Readable streams#

Readable streams are an abstraction for a _source_ from which data is
consumed.

Examples of `Readable` streams include:

  * HTTP responses, on the client
  * HTTP requests, on the server
  * fs read streams
  * [zlib streams](zlib.html)
  * [crypto streams](crypto.html)
  * TCP sockets
  * child process stdout and stderr
  * `process.stdin`

All `Readable` streams implement the interface defined by the
`stream.Readable` class.

##### Two reading modes#

`Readable` streams effectively operate in one of two modes: flowing and
paused. These modes are separate from object mode. A `Readable` stream can be
in object mode or not, regardless of whether it is in flowing mode or paused
mode.

  * In flowing mode, data is read from the underlying system automatically and provided to an application as quickly as possible using events via the `EventEmitter` interface.

  * In paused mode, the `stream.read()` method must be called explicitly to read chunks of data from the stream.

All `Readable` streams begin in paused mode but can be switched to flowing
mode in one of the following ways:

  * Adding a `'data'` event handler.
  * Calling the `stream.resume()` method.
  * Calling the `stream.pipe()` method to send the data to a `Writable`.

The `Readable` can switch back to paused mode using one of the following:

  * If there are no pipe destinations, by calling the `stream.pause()` method.
  * If there are pipe destinations, by removing all pipe destinations. Multiple pipe destinations may be removed by calling the `stream.unpipe()` method.

The important concept to remember is that a `Readable` will not generate data
until a mechanism for either consuming or ignoring that data is provided. If
the consuming mechanism is disabled or taken away, the `Readable` will
_attempt_ to stop generating the data.

For backward compatibility reasons, removing `'data'` event handlers will
**not** automatically pause the stream. Also, if there are piped destinations,
then calling `stream.pause()` will not guarantee that the stream will _remain_
paused once those destinations drain and ask for more data.

If a `Readable` is switched into flowing mode and there are no consumers
available to handle the data, that data will be lost. This can occur, for
instance, when the `readable.resume()` method is called without a listener
attached to the `'data'` event, or when a `'data'` event handler is removed
from the stream.

Adding a `'readable'` event handler automatically makes the stream stop
flowing, and the data has to be consumed via `readable.read()`. If the
`'readable'` event handler is removed, then the stream will start flowing
again if there is a `'data'` event handler.

##### Three states#

The "two modes" of operation for a `Readable` stream are a simplified
abstraction for the more complicated internal state management that is
happening within the `Readable` stream implementation.

Specifically, at any given point in time, every `Readable` is in one of three
possible states:

  * `readable.readableFlowing === null`
  * `readable.readableFlowing === false`
  * `readable.readableFlowing === true`

When `readable.readableFlowing` is `null`, no mechanism for consuming the
stream's data is provided. Therefore, the stream will not generate data. While
in this state, attaching a listener for the `'data'` event, calling the
`readable.pipe()` method, or calling the `readable.resume()` method will
switch `readable.readableFlowing` to `true`, causing the `Readable` to begin
actively emitting events as data is generated.

Calling `readable.pause()`, `readable.unpipe()`, or receiving backpressure
will cause the `readable.readableFlowing` to be set as `false`, temporarily
halting the flowing of events but _not_ halting the generation of data. While
in this state, attaching a listener for the `'data'` event will not switch
`readable.readableFlowing` to `true`.

    
    
    const { PassThrough, Writable } = require('node:stream');
    const pass = new PassThrough();
    const writable = new Writable();
    
    pass.pipe(writable);
    pass.unpipe(writable);
    // readableFlowing is now false.
    
    pass.on('data', (chunk) => { console.log(chunk.toString()); });
    // readableFlowing is still false.
    pass.write('ok');  // Will not emit 'data'.
    pass.resume();     // Must be called to make stream emit 'data'.
    // readableFlowing is now true. copy

While `readable.readableFlowing` is `false`, data may be accumulating within
the stream's internal buffer.

##### Choose one API style#

The `Readable` stream API evolved across multiple Node.js versions and
provides multiple methods of consuming stream data. In general, developers
should choose _one_ of the methods of consuming data and _should never_ use
multiple methods to consume data from a single stream. Specifically, using a
combination of `on('data')`, `on('readable')`, `pipe()`, or async iterators
could lead to unintuitive behavior.

##### Class: `stream.Readable`#

Added in: v0.9.4

###### Event: `'close'`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Add `emitClose` option to specify if `'close'` is emitted on destroy.  
v0.9.4 | Added in: v0.9.4  
  
The `'close'` event is emitted when the stream and any of its underlying
resources (a file descriptor, for example) have been closed. The event
indicates that no more events will be emitted, and no further computation will
occur.

A `Readable` stream will always emit the `'close'` event if it is created with
the `emitClose` option.

###### Event: `'data'`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * `chunk` <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The chunk of data. For streams that are not operating in object mode, the chunk will be either a string or `Buffer`. For streams that are in object mode, the chunk can be any JavaScript value other than `null`.

The `'data'` event is emitted whenever the stream is relinquishing ownership
of a chunk of data to a consumer. This may occur whenever the stream is
switched in flowing mode by calling `readable.pipe()`, `readable.resume()`, or
by attaching a listener callback to the `'data'` event. The `'data'` event
will also be emitted whenever the `readable.read()` method is called and a
chunk of data is available to be returned.

Attaching a `'data'` event listener to a stream that has not been explicitly
paused will switch the stream into flowing mode. Data will then be passed as
soon as it is available.

The listener callback will be passed the chunk of data as a string if a
default encoding has been specified for the stream using the
`readable.setEncoding()` method; otherwise the data will be passed as a
`Buffer`.

    
    
    const readable = getReadableStreamSomehow();
    readable.on('data', (chunk) => {
      console.log(`Received ${chunk.length} bytes of data.`);
    }); copy

###### Event: `'end'`#

Added in: v0.9.4

The `'end'` event is emitted when there is no more data to be consumed from
the stream.

The `'end'` event **will not be emitted** unless the data is completely
consumed. This can be accomplished by switching the stream into flowing mode,
or by calling `stream.read()` repeatedly until all data has been consumed.

    
    
    const readable = getReadableStreamSomehow();
    readable.on('data', (chunk) => {
      console.log(`Received ${chunk.length} bytes of data.`);
    });
    readable.on('end', () => {
      console.log('There will be no more data.');
    }); copy

###### Event: `'error'`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

The `'error'` event may be emitted by a `Readable` implementation at any time.
Typically, this may occur if the underlying stream is unable to generate data
due to an underlying internal failure, or when a stream implementation
attempts to push an invalid chunk of data.

The listener callback will be passed a single `Error` object.

###### Event: `'pause'`#

Added in: v0.9.4

The `'pause'` event is emitted when `stream.pause()` is called and
`readableFlowing` is not `false`.

###### Event: `'readable'`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | The `'readable'` is always emitted in the next tick after `.push()` is called.  
v10.0.0 | Using `'readable'` requires calling `.read()`.  
v0.9.4 | Added in: v0.9.4  
  
The `'readable'` event is emitted when there is data available to be read from
the stream, up to the configured high water mark (`state.highWaterMark`).
Effectively, it indicates that the stream has new information within the
buffer. If data is available within this buffer, `stream.read()` can be called
to retrieve that data. Additionally, the `'readable'` event may also be
emitted when the end of the stream has been reached.

    
    
    const readable = getReadableStreamSomehow();
    readable.on('readable', function() {
      // There is some data to read now.
      let data;
    
      while ((data = this.read()) !== null) {
        console.log(data);
      }
    }); copy

If the end of the stream has been reached, calling `stream.read()` will return
`null` and trigger the `'end'` event. This is also true if there never was any
data to be read. For instance, in the following example, `foo.txt` is an empty
file:

    
    
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const rr = fs.createReadStream('foo.txt');
    rr.on('readable', () => {
      console.log(`readable: ${rr.read()}`);
    });
    rr.on('end', () => {
      console.log('end');
    }); copy

The output of running this script is:

    
    
    $ node test.js
    readable: null
    end copy

In some cases, attaching a listener for the `'readable'` event will cause some
amount of data to be read into an internal buffer.

In general, the `readable.pipe()` and `'data'` event mechanisms are easier to
understand than the `'readable'` event. However, handling `'readable'` might
result in increased throughput.

If both `'readable'` and `'data'` are used at the same time, `'readable'`
takes precedence in controlling the flow, i.e. `'data'` will be emitted only
when `stream.read()` is called. The `readableFlowing` property would become
`false`. If there are `'data'` listeners when `'readable'` is removed, the
stream will start flowing, i.e. `'data'` events will be emitted without
calling `.resume()`.

###### Event: `'resume'`#

Added in: v0.9.4

The `'resume'` event is emitted when `stream.resume()` is called and
`readableFlowing` is not `true`.

###### `readable.destroy([error])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | Work as a no-op on a stream that has already been destroyed.  
v8.0.0 | Added in: v8.0.0  
  
  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) Error which will be passed as payload in `'error'` event
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

Destroy the stream. Optionally emit an `'error'` event, and emit a `'close'`
event (unless `emitClose` is set to `false`). After this call, the readable
stream will release any internal resources and subsequent calls to `push()`
will be ignored.

Once `destroy()` has been called any further calls will be a no-op and no
further errors except from `_destroy()` may be emitted as `'error'`.

Implementors should not override this method, but instead implement
`readable._destroy()`.

###### `readable.closed`#

Added in: v18.0.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` after `'close'` has been emitted.

###### `readable.destroyed`#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` after `readable.destroy()` has been called.

###### `readable.isPaused()`#

Added in: v0.11.14

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `readable.isPaused()` method returns the current operating state of the
`Readable`. This is used primarily by the mechanism that underlies the
`readable.pipe()` method. In most typical cases, there will be no reason to
use this method directly.

    
    
    const readable = new stream.Readable();
    
    readable.isPaused(); // === false
    readable.pause();
    readable.isPaused(); // === true
    readable.resume();
    readable.isPaused(); // === false copy

###### `readable.pause()`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

The `readable.pause()` method will cause a stream in flowing mode to stop
emitting `'data'` events, switching out of flowing mode. Any data that becomes
available will remain in the internal buffer.

    
    
    const readable = getReadableStreamSomehow();
    readable.on('data', (chunk) => {
      console.log(`Received ${chunk.length} bytes of data.`);
      readable.pause();
      console.log('There will be no additional data for 1 second.');
      setTimeout(() => {
        console.log('Now data will start flowing again.');
        readable.resume();
      }, 1000);
    }); copy

The `readable.pause()` method has no effect if there is a `'readable'` event
listener.

###### `readable.pipe(destination[, options])`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * `destination` <stream.Writable> The destination for writing data
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Pipe options 
    * `end` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) End the writer when the reader ends. **Default:** `true`.
  * Returns: <stream.Writable> The _destination_ , allowing for a chain of pipes if it is a `Duplex` or a `Transform` stream

The `readable.pipe()` method attaches a `Writable` stream to the `readable`,
causing it to switch automatically into flowing mode and push all of its data
to the attached `Writable`. The flow of data will be automatically managed so
that the destination `Writable` stream is not overwhelmed by a faster
`Readable` stream.

The following example pipes all of the data from the `readable` into a file
named `file.txt`:

    
    
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const readable = getReadableStreamSomehow();
    const writable = fs.createWriteStream('file.txt');
    // All the data from readable goes into 'file.txt'.
    readable.pipe(writable); copy

It is possible to attach multiple `Writable` streams to a single `Readable`
stream.

The `readable.pipe()` method returns a reference to the _destination_ stream
making it possible to set up chains of piped streams:

    
    
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const zlib = require('node:zlib');
    const r = fs.createReadStream('file.txt');
    const z = zlib.createGzip();
    const w = fs.createWriteStream('file.txt.gz');
    r.pipe(z).pipe(w); copy

By default, `stream.end()` is called on the destination `Writable` stream when
the source `Readable` stream emits `'end'`, so that the destination is no
longer writable. To disable this default behavior, the `end` option can be
passed as `false`, causing the destination stream to remain open:

    
    
    reader.pipe(writer, { end: false });
    reader.on('end', () => {
      writer.end('Goodbye\n');
    }); copy

One important caveat is that if the `Readable` stream emits an error during
processing, the `Writable` destination _is not closed_ automatically. If an
error occurs, it will be necessary to _manually_ close each stream in order to
prevent memory leaks.

The `process.stderr` and `process.stdout` `Writable` streams are never closed
until the Node.js process exits, regardless of the specified options.

###### `readable.read([size])`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * `size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Optional argument to specify how much data to read.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

The `readable.read()` method reads data out of the internal buffer and returns
it. If no data is available to be read, `null` is returned. By default, the
data is returned as a `Buffer` object unless an encoding has been specified
using the `readable.setEncoding()` method or the stream is operating in object
mode.

The optional `size` argument specifies a specific number of bytes to read. If
`size` bytes are not available to be read, `null` will be returned _unless_
the stream has ended, in which case all of the data remaining in the internal
buffer will be returned.

If the `size` argument is not specified, all of the data contained in the
internal buffer will be returned.

The `size` argument must be less than or equal to 1 GiB.

The `readable.read()` method should only be called on `Readable` streams
operating in paused mode. In flowing mode, `readable.read()` is called
automatically until the internal buffer is fully drained.

    
    
    const readable = getReadableStreamSomehow();
    
    // 'readable' may be triggered multiple times as data is buffered in
    readable.on('readable', () => {
      let chunk;
      console.log('Stream is readable (new data received in buffer)');
      // Use a loop to make sure we read all currently available data
      while (null !== (chunk = readable.read())) {
        console.log(`Read ${chunk.length} bytes of data...`);
      }
    });
    
    // 'end' will be triggered once when there is no more data available
    readable.on('end', () => {
      console.log('Reached end of stream.');
    }); copy

Each call to `readable.read()` returns a chunk of data or `null`, signifying
that there's no more data to read at that moment. These chunks aren't
automatically concatenated. Because a single `read()` call does not return all
the data, using a while loop may be necessary to continuously read chunks
until all data is retrieved. When reading a large file, `.read()` might return
`null` temporarily, indicating that it has consumed all buffered content but
there may be more data yet to be buffered. In such cases, a new `'readable'`
event is emitted once there's more data in the buffer, and the `'end'` event
signifies the end of data transmission.

Therefore to read a file's whole contents from a `readable`, it is necessary
to collect chunks across multiple `'readable'` events:

    
    
    const chunks = [];
    
    readable.on('readable', () => {
      let chunk;
      while (null !== (chunk = readable.read())) {
        chunks.push(chunk);
      }
    });
    
    readable.on('end', () => {
      const content = chunks.join('');
    }); copy

A `Readable` stream in object mode will always return a single item from a
call to `readable.read(size)`, regardless of the value of the `size` argument.

If the `readable.read()` method returns a chunk of data, a `'data'` event will
also be emitted.

Calling `stream.read([size])` after the `'end'` event has been emitted will
return `null`. No runtime error will be raised.

###### `readable.readable`#

Added in: v11.4.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` if it is safe to call `readable.read()`, which means the stream has
not been destroyed or emitted `'error'` or `'end'`.

###### `readable.readableAborted`#

Added in: v16.8.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns whether the stream was destroyed or errored before emitting `'end'`.

###### `readable.readableDidRead`#

Added in: v16.7.0, v14.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns whether `'data'` has been emitted.

###### `readable.readableEncoding`#

Added in: v12.7.0

  * [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Getter for the property `encoding` of a given `Readable` stream. The
`encoding` property can be set using the `readable.setEncoding()` method.

###### `readable.readableEnded`#

Added in: v12.9.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Becomes `true` when `'end'` event is emitted.

###### `readable.errored`#

Added in: v18.0.0

  * [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

Returns error if the stream has been destroyed with an error.

###### `readable.readableFlowing`#

Added in: v9.4.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

This property reflects the current state of a `Readable` stream as described
in the Three states section.

###### `readable.readableHighWaterMark`#

Added in: v9.3.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the value of `highWaterMark` passed when creating this `Readable`.

###### `readable.readableLength`#

Added in: v9.4.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

This property contains the number of bytes (or objects) in the queue ready to
be read. The value provides introspection data regarding the status of the
`highWaterMark`.

###### `readable.readableObjectMode`#

Added in: v12.3.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Getter for the property `objectMode` of a given `Readable` stream.

###### `readable.resume()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | The `resume()` has no effect if there is a `'readable'` event listening.  
v0.9.4 | Added in: v0.9.4  
  
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

The `readable.resume()` method causes an explicitly paused `Readable` stream
to resume emitting `'data'` events, switching the stream into flowing mode.

The `readable.resume()` method can be used to fully consume the data from a
stream without actually processing any of that data:

    
    
    getReadableStreamSomehow()
      .resume()
      .on('end', () => {
        console.log('Reached the end, but did not read anything.');
      }); copy

The `readable.resume()` method has no effect if there is a `'readable'` event
listener.

###### `readable.setEncoding(encoding)`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The encoding to use.
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

The `readable.setEncoding()` method sets the character encoding for data read
from the `Readable` stream.

By default, no encoding is assigned and stream data will be returned as
`Buffer` objects. Setting an encoding causes the stream data to be returned as
strings of the specified encoding rather than as `Buffer` objects. For
instance, calling `readable.setEncoding('utf8')` will cause the output data to
be interpreted as UTF-8 data, and passed as strings. Calling
`readable.setEncoding('hex')` will cause the data to be encoded in hexadecimal
string format.

The `Readable` stream will properly handle multi-byte characters delivered
through the stream that would otherwise become improperly decoded if simply
pulled from the stream as `Buffer` objects.

    
    
    const readable = getReadableStreamSomehow();
    readable.setEncoding('utf8');
    readable.on('data', (chunk) => {
      assert.equal(typeof chunk, 'string');
      console.log('Got %d characters of string data:', chunk.length);
    }); copy

###### `readable.unpipe([destination])`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * `destination` <stream.Writable> Optional specific stream to unpipe
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

The `readable.unpipe()` method detaches a `Writable` stream previously
attached using the `stream.pipe()` method.

If the `destination` is not specified, then _all_ pipes are detached.

If the `destination` is specified, but no pipe is set up for it, then the
method does nothing.

    
    
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const readable = getReadableStreamSomehow();
    const writable = fs.createWriteStream('file.txt');
    // All the data from readable goes into 'file.txt',
    // but only for the first second.
    readable.pipe(writable);
    setTimeout(() => {
      console.log('Stop writing to file.txt.');
      readable.unpipe(writable);
      console.log('Manually close the file stream.');
      writable.end();
    }, 1000); copy

###### `readable.unshift(chunk[, encoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0, v20.13.0 | The `chunk` argument can now be a `TypedArray` or `DataView` instance.  
v8.0.0 | The `chunk` argument can now be a `Uint8Array` instance.  
v0.9.11 | Added in: v0.9.11  
  
  * `chunk` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Chunk of data to unshift onto the read queue. For streams not operating in object mode, `chunk` must be a [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type), <Buffer>, [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray), [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) or `null`. For object mode streams, `chunk` may be any JavaScript value.
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Encoding of string chunks. Must be a valid `Buffer` encoding, such as `'utf8'` or `'ascii'`.

Passing `chunk` as `null` signals the end of the stream (EOF) and behaves the
same as `readable.push(null)`, after which no more data can be written. The
EOF signal is put at the end of the buffer and any buffered data will still be
flushed.

The `readable.unshift()` method pushes a chunk of data back into the internal
buffer. This is useful in certain situations where a stream is being consumed
by code that needs to "un-consume" some amount of data that it has
optimistically pulled out of the source, so that the data can be passed on to
some other party.

The `stream.unshift(chunk)` method cannot be called after the `'end'` event
has been emitted or a runtime error will be thrown.

Developers using `stream.unshift()` often should consider switching to use of
a `Transform` stream instead. See the API for stream implementers section for
more information.

    
    
    // Pull off a header delimited by \n\n.
    // Use unshift() if we get too much.
    // Call the callback with (error, header, stream).
    const { StringDecoder } = require('node:string_decoder');
    function parseHeader(stream, callback) {
      stream.on('error', callback);
      stream.on('readable', onReadable);
      const decoder = new StringDecoder('utf8');
      let header = '';
      function onReadable() {
        let chunk;
        while (null !== (chunk = stream.read())) {
          const str = decoder.write(chunk);
          if (str.includes('\n\n')) {
            // Found the header boundary.
            const split = str.split(/\n\n/);
            header += split.shift();
            const remaining = split.join('\n\n');
            const buf = Buffer.from(remaining, 'utf8');
            stream.removeListener('error', callback);
            // Remove the 'readable' listener before unshifting.
            stream.removeListener('readable', onReadable);
            if (buf.length)
              stream.unshift(buf);
            // Now the body of the message can be read from the stream.
            callback(null, header, stream);
            return;
          }
          // Still reading the header.
          header += str;
        }
      }
    } copy

Unlike `stream.push(chunk)`, `stream.unshift(chunk)` will not end the reading
process by resetting the internal reading state of the stream. This can cause
unexpected results if `readable.unshift()` is called during a read (i.e. from
within a `stream._read()` implementation on a custom stream). Following the
call to `readable.unshift()` with an immediate `stream.push('')` will reset
the reading state appropriately, however it is best to simply avoid calling
`readable.unshift()` while in the process of performing a read.

###### `readable.wrap(stream)`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * `stream` <Stream> An "old style" readable stream
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

Prior to Node.js 0.10, streams did not implement the entire `node:stream`
module API as it is currently defined. (See Compatibility for more
information.)

When using an older Node.js library that emits `'data'` events and has a
`stream.pause()` method that is advisory only, the `readable.wrap()` method
can be used to create a `Readable` stream that uses the old stream as its data
source.

It will rarely be necessary to use `readable.wrap()` but the method has been
provided as a convenience for interacting with older Node.js applications and
libraries.

    
    
    const { OldReader } = require('./old-api-module.js');
    const { Readable } = require('node:stream');
    const oreader = new OldReader();
    const myReader = new Readable().wrap(oreader);
    
    myReader.on('readable', () => {
      myReader.read(); // etc.
    }); copy

###### `readable[Symbol.asyncIterator]()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.14.0 | Symbol.asyncIterator support is no longer experimental.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * Returns: [<AsyncIterator>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterator-interface) to fully consume the stream.

    
    
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    async function print(readable) {
      readable.setEncoding('utf8');
      let data = '';
      for await (const chunk of readable) {
        data += chunk;
      }
      console.log(data);
    }
    
    print(fs.createReadStream('file')).catch(console.error); copy

If the loop terminates with a `break`, `return`, or a `throw`, the stream will
be destroyed. In other terms, iterating over a stream will consume the stream
fully. The stream will be read in chunks of size equal to the `highWaterMark`
option. In the code example above, data will be in a single chunk if the file
has less then 64 KiB of data because no `highWaterMark` option is provided to
`fs.createReadStream()`.

###### `readable[Symbol.asyncDispose]()`#

Added in: v20.4.0, v18.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Calls `readable.destroy()` with an `AbortError` and returns a promise that
fulfills when the stream is finished.

###### `readable.compose(stream[, options])`#

Added in: v19.1.0, v18.13.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `stream` <Stream> | [<Iterable>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterable_protocol) | [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface) | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows destroying the stream if the signal is aborted.
  * Returns: <Duplex> a stream composed with the stream `stream`.

    
    
    import { Readable } from 'node:stream';
    
    async function* splitToWords(source) {
      for await (const chunk of source) {
        const words = String(chunk).split(' ');
    
        for (const word of words) {
          yield word;
        }
      }
    }
    
    const wordsStream = Readable.from(['this is', 'compose as operator']).compose(splitToWords);
    const words = await wordsStream.toArray();
    
    console.log(words); // prints ['this', 'is', 'compose', 'as', 'operator'] copy

See `stream.compose` for more information.

###### `readable.iterator([options])`#

Added in: v16.3.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `destroyOnReturn` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When set to `false`, calling `return` on the async iterator, or exiting a `for await...of` iteration using a `break`, `return`, or `throw` will not destroy the stream. **Default:** `true`.
  * Returns: [<AsyncIterator>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterator-interface) to consume the stream.

The iterator created by this method gives users the option to cancel the
destruction of the stream if the `for await...of` loop is exited by `return`,
`break`, or `throw`, or if the iterator should destroy the stream if the
stream emitted an error during iteration.

    
    
    const { Readable } = require('node:stream');
    
    async function printIterator(readable) {
      for await (const chunk of readable.iterator({ destroyOnReturn: false })) {
        console.log(chunk); // 1
        break;
      }
    
      console.log(readable.destroyed); // false
    
      for await (const chunk of readable.iterator({ destroyOnReturn: false })) {
        console.log(chunk); // Will print 2 and then 3
      }
    
      console.log(readable.destroyed); // True, stream was totally consumed
    }
    
    async function printSymbolAsyncIterator(readable) {
      for await (const chunk of readable) {
        console.log(chunk); // 1
        break;
      }
    
      console.log(readable.destroyed); // true
    }
    
    async function showBoth() {
      await printIterator(Readable.from([1, 2, 3]));
      await printSymbolAsyncIterator(Readable.from([1, 2, 3]));
    }
    
    showBoth(); copy

###### `readable.map(fn[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.7.0, v18.19.0 | added `highWaterMark` in options.  
v17.4.0, v16.14.0 | Added in: v17.4.0, v16.14.0  
  
Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) a function to map over every chunk in the stream. 
    * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) a chunk of data from the stream.
    * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
      * `signal` <AbortSignal> aborted if the stream is destroyed allowing to abort the `fn` call early.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `concurrency` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the maximum concurrent invocation of `fn` to call on the stream at once. **Default:** `1`.
    * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) how many items to buffer while waiting for user consumption of the mapped items. **Default:** `concurrency * 2 - 1`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows destroying the stream if the signal is aborted.
  * Returns: <Readable> a stream mapped with the function `fn`.

This method allows mapping over the stream. The `fn` function will be called
for every chunk in the stream. If the `fn` function returns a promise - that
promise will be `await`ed before being passed to the result stream.

    
    
    import { Readable } from 'node:stream';
    import { Resolver } from 'node:dns/promises';
    
    // With a synchronous mapper.
    for await (const chunk of Readable.from([1, 2, 3, 4]).map((x) => x * 2)) {
      console.log(chunk); // 2, 4, 6, 8
    }
    // With an asynchronous mapper, making at most 2 queries at a time.
    const resolver = new Resolver();
    const dnsResults = Readable.from([
      'nodejs.org',
      'openjsf.org',
      'www.linuxfoundation.org',
    ]).map((domain) => resolver.resolve4(domain), { concurrency: 2 });
    for await (const result of dnsResults) {
      console.log(result); // Logs the DNS result of resolver.resolve4.
    } copy

###### `readable.filter(fn[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.7.0, v18.19.0 | added `highWaterMark` in options.  
v17.4.0, v16.14.0 | Added in: v17.4.0, v16.14.0  
  
Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) a function to filter chunks from the stream. 
    * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) a chunk of data from the stream.
    * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
      * `signal` <AbortSignal> aborted if the stream is destroyed allowing to abort the `fn` call early.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `concurrency` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the maximum concurrent invocation of `fn` to call on the stream at once. **Default:** `1`.
    * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) how many items to buffer while waiting for user consumption of the filtered items. **Default:** `concurrency * 2 - 1`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows destroying the stream if the signal is aborted.
  * Returns: <Readable> a stream filtered with the predicate `fn`.

This method allows filtering the stream. For each chunk in the stream the `fn`
function will be called and if it returns a truthy value, the chunk will be
passed to the result stream. If the `fn` function returns a promise - that
promise will be `await`ed.

    
    
    import { Readable } from 'node:stream';
    import { Resolver } from 'node:dns/promises';
    
    // With a synchronous predicate.
    for await (const chunk of Readable.from([1, 2, 3, 4]).filter((x) => x > 2)) {
      console.log(chunk); // 3, 4
    }
    // With an asynchronous predicate, making at most 2 queries at a time.
    const resolver = new Resolver();
    const dnsResults = Readable.from([
      'nodejs.org',
      'openjsf.org',
      'www.linuxfoundation.org',
    ]).filter(async (domain) => {
      const { address } = await resolver.resolve4(domain, { ttl: true });
      return address.ttl > 60;
    }, { concurrency: 2 });
    for await (const result of dnsResults) {
      // Logs domains with more than 60 seconds on the resolved dns record.
      console.log(result);
    } copy

###### `readable.forEach(fn[, options])`#

Added in: v17.5.0, v16.15.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) a function to call on each chunk of the stream. 
    * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) a chunk of data from the stream.
    * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
      * `signal` <AbortSignal> aborted if the stream is destroyed allowing to abort the `fn` call early.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `concurrency` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the maximum concurrent invocation of `fn` to call on the stream at once. **Default:** `1`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows destroying the stream if the signal is aborted.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) a promise for when the stream has finished.

This method allows iterating a stream. For each chunk in the stream the `fn`
function will be called. If the `fn` function returns a promise - that promise
will be `await`ed.

This method is different from `for await...of` loops in that it can optionally
process chunks concurrently. In addition, a `forEach` iteration can only be
stopped by having passed a `signal` option and aborting the related
`AbortController` while `for await...of` can be stopped with `break` or
`return`. In either case the stream will be destroyed.

This method is different from listening to the `'data'` event in that it uses
the `readable` event in the underlying machinery and can limit the number of
concurrent `fn` calls.

    
    
    import { Readable } from 'node:stream';
    import { Resolver } from 'node:dns/promises';
    
    // With a synchronous predicate.
    for await (const chunk of Readable.from([1, 2, 3, 4]).filter((x) => x > 2)) {
      console.log(chunk); // 3, 4
    }
    // With an asynchronous predicate, making at most 2 queries at a time.
    const resolver = new Resolver();
    const dnsResults = Readable.from([
      'nodejs.org',
      'openjsf.org',
      'www.linuxfoundation.org',
    ]).map(async (domain) => {
      const { address } = await resolver.resolve4(domain, { ttl: true });
      return address;
    }, { concurrency: 2 });
    await dnsResults.forEach((result) => {
      // Logs result, similar to `for await (const result of dnsResults)`
      console.log(result);
    });
    console.log('done'); // Stream has finished copy

###### `readable.toArray([options])`#

Added in: v17.5.0, v16.15.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows cancelling the toArray operation if the signal is aborted.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) a promise containing an array with the contents of the stream.

This method allows easily obtaining the contents of a stream.

As this method reads the entire stream into memory, it negates the benefits of
streams. It's intended for interoperability and convenience, not as the
primary way to consume streams.

    
    
    import { Readable } from 'node:stream';
    import { Resolver } from 'node:dns/promises';
    
    await Readable.from([1, 2, 3, 4]).toArray(); // [1, 2, 3, 4]
    
    // Make dns queries concurrently using .map and collect
    // the results into an array using toArray
    const dnsResults = await Readable.from([
      'nodejs.org',
      'openjsf.org',
      'www.linuxfoundation.org',
    ]).map(async (domain) => {
      const { address } = await resolver.resolve4(domain, { ttl: true });
      return address;
    }, { concurrency: 2 }).toArray(); copy

###### `readable.some(fn[, options])`#

Added in: v17.5.0, v16.15.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) a function to call on each chunk of the stream. 
    * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) a chunk of data from the stream.
    * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
      * `signal` <AbortSignal> aborted if the stream is destroyed allowing to abort the `fn` call early.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `concurrency` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the maximum concurrent invocation of `fn` to call on the stream at once. **Default:** `1`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows destroying the stream if the signal is aborted.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) a promise evaluating to `true` if `fn` returned a truthy value for at least one of the chunks.

This method is similar to `Array.prototype.some` and calls `fn` on each chunk
in the stream until the awaited return value is `true` (or any truthy value).
Once an `fn` call on a chunk awaited return value is truthy, the stream is
destroyed and the promise is fulfilled with `true`. If none of the `fn` calls
on the chunks return a truthy value, the promise is fulfilled with `false`.

    
    
    import { Readable } from 'node:stream';
    import { stat } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    // With a synchronous predicate.
    await Readable.from([1, 2, 3, 4]).some((x) => x > 2); // true
    await Readable.from([1, 2, 3, 4]).some((x) => x < 0); // false
    
    // With an asynchronous predicate, making at most 2 file checks at a time.
    const anyBigFile = await Readable.from([
      'file1',
      'file2',
      'file3',
    ]).some(async (fileName) => {
      const stats = await stat(fileName);
      return stats.size > 1024 * 1024;
    }, { concurrency: 2 });
    console.log(anyBigFile); // `true` if any file in the list is bigger than 1MB
    console.log('done'); // Stream has finished copy

###### `readable.find(fn[, options])`#

Added in: v17.5.0, v16.17.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) a function to call on each chunk of the stream. 
    * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) a chunk of data from the stream.
    * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
      * `signal` <AbortSignal> aborted if the stream is destroyed allowing to abort the `fn` call early.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `concurrency` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the maximum concurrent invocation of `fn` to call on the stream at once. **Default:** `1`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows destroying the stream if the signal is aborted.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) a promise evaluating to the first chunk for which `fn` evaluated with a truthy value, or `undefined` if no element was found.

This method is similar to `Array.prototype.find` and calls `fn` on each chunk
in the stream to find a chunk with a truthy value for `fn`. Once an `fn`
call's awaited return value is truthy, the stream is destroyed and the promise
is fulfilled with value for which `fn` returned a truthy value. If all of the
`fn` calls on the chunks return a falsy value, the promise is fulfilled with
`undefined`.

    
    
    import { Readable } from 'node:stream';
    import { stat } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    // With a synchronous predicate.
    await Readable.from([1, 2, 3, 4]).find((x) => x > 2); // 3
    await Readable.from([1, 2, 3, 4]).find((x) => x > 0); // 1
    await Readable.from([1, 2, 3, 4]).find((x) => x > 10); // undefined
    
    // With an asynchronous predicate, making at most 2 file checks at a time.
    const foundBigFile = await Readable.from([
      'file1',
      'file2',
      'file3',
    ]).find(async (fileName) => {
      const stats = await stat(fileName);
      return stats.size > 1024 * 1024;
    }, { concurrency: 2 });
    console.log(foundBigFile); // File name of large file, if any file in the list is bigger than 1MB
    console.log('done'); // Stream has finished copy

###### `readable.every(fn[, options])`#

Added in: v17.5.0, v16.15.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) a function to call on each chunk of the stream. 
    * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) a chunk of data from the stream.
    * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
      * `signal` <AbortSignal> aborted if the stream is destroyed allowing to abort the `fn` call early.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `concurrency` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the maximum concurrent invocation of `fn` to call on the stream at once. **Default:** `1`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows destroying the stream if the signal is aborted.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) a promise evaluating to `true` if `fn` returned a truthy value for all of the chunks.

This method is similar to `Array.prototype.every` and calls `fn` on each chunk
in the stream to check if all awaited return values are truthy value for `fn`.
Once an `fn` call on a chunk awaited return value is falsy, the stream is
destroyed and the promise is fulfilled with `false`. If all of the `fn` calls
on the chunks return a truthy value, the promise is fulfilled with `true`.

    
    
    import { Readable } from 'node:stream';
    import { stat } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    // With a synchronous predicate.
    await Readable.from([1, 2, 3, 4]).every((x) => x > 2); // false
    await Readable.from([1, 2, 3, 4]).every((x) => x > 0); // true
    
    // With an asynchronous predicate, making at most 2 file checks at a time.
    const allBigFiles = await Readable.from([
      'file1',
      'file2',
      'file3',
    ]).every(async (fileName) => {
      const stats = await stat(fileName);
      return stats.size > 1024 * 1024;
    }, { concurrency: 2 });
    // `true` if all files in the list are bigger than 1MiB
    console.log(allBigFiles);
    console.log('done'); // Stream has finished copy

###### `readable.flatMap(fn[, options])`#

Added in: v17.5.0, v16.15.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncGeneratorFunction>](https://tc39.es/proposal-async-iteration/#sec-asyncgeneratorfunction-constructor) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) a function to map over every chunk in the stream. 
    * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) a chunk of data from the stream.
    * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
      * `signal` <AbortSignal> aborted if the stream is destroyed allowing to abort the `fn` call early.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `concurrency` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the maximum concurrent invocation of `fn` to call on the stream at once. **Default:** `1`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows destroying the stream if the signal is aborted.
  * Returns: <Readable> a stream flat-mapped with the function `fn`.

This method returns a new stream by applying the given callback to each chunk
of the stream and then flattening the result.

It is possible to return a stream or another iterable or async iterable from
`fn` and the result streams will be merged (flattened) into the returned
stream.

    
    
    import { Readable } from 'node:stream';
    import { createReadStream } from 'node:fs';
    
    // With a synchronous mapper.
    for await (const chunk of Readable.from([1, 2, 3, 4]).flatMap((x) => [x, x])) {
      console.log(chunk); // 1, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 4
    }
    // With an asynchronous mapper, combine the contents of 4 files
    const concatResult = Readable.from([
      './1.mjs',
      './2.mjs',
      './3.mjs',
      './4.mjs',
    ]).flatMap((fileName) => createReadStream(fileName));
    for await (const result of concatResult) {
      // This will contain the contents (all chunks) of all 4 files
      console.log(result);
    } copy

###### `readable.drop(limit[, options])`#

Added in: v17.5.0, v16.15.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `limit` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the number of chunks to drop from the readable.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows destroying the stream if the signal is aborted.
  * Returns: <Readable> a stream with `limit` chunks dropped.

This method returns a new stream with the first `limit` chunks dropped.

    
    
    import { Readable } from 'node:stream';
    
    await Readable.from([1, 2, 3, 4]).drop(2).toArray(); // [3, 4] copy

###### `readable.take(limit[, options])`#

Added in: v17.5.0, v16.15.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `limit` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the number of chunks to take from the readable.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows destroying the stream if the signal is aborted.
  * Returns: <Readable> a stream with `limit` chunks taken.

This method returns a new stream with the first `limit` chunks.

    
    
    import { Readable } from 'node:stream';
    
    await Readable.from([1, 2, 3, 4]).take(2).toArray(); // [1, 2] copy

###### `readable.reduce(fn[, initial[, options]])`#

Added in: v17.5.0, v16.15.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) a reducer function to call over every chunk in the stream. 
    * `previous` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) the value obtained from the last call to `fn` or the `initial` value if specified or the first chunk of the stream otherwise.
    * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) a chunk of data from the stream.
    * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
      * `signal` <AbortSignal> aborted if the stream is destroyed allowing to abort the `fn` call early.
  * `initial` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) the initial value to use in the reduction.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows destroying the stream if the signal is aborted.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) a promise for the final value of the reduction.

This method calls `fn` on each chunk of the stream in order, passing it the
result from the calculation on the previous element. It returns a promise for
the final value of the reduction.

If no `initial` value is supplied the first chunk of the stream is used as the
initial value. If the stream is empty, the promise is rejected with a
`TypeError` with the `ERR_INVALID_ARGS` code property.

    
    
    import { Readable } from 'node:stream';
    import { readdir, stat } from 'node:fs/promises';
    import { join } from 'node:path';
    
    const directoryPath = './src';
    const filesInDir = await readdir(directoryPath);
    
    const folderSize = await Readable.from(filesInDir)
      .reduce(async (totalSize, file) => {
        const { size } = await stat(join(directoryPath, file));
        return totalSize + size;
      }, 0);
    
    console.log(folderSize); copy

The reducer function iterates the stream element-by-element which means that
there is no `concurrency` parameter or parallelism. To perform a `reduce`
concurrently, you can extract the async function to `readable.map` method.

    
    
    import { Readable } from 'node:stream';
    import { readdir, stat } from 'node:fs/promises';
    import { join } from 'node:path';
    
    const directoryPath = './src';
    const filesInDir = await readdir(directoryPath);
    
    const folderSize = await Readable.from(filesInDir)
      .map((file) => stat(join(directoryPath, file)), { concurrency: 2 })
      .reduce((totalSize, { size }) => totalSize + size, 0);
    
    console.log(folderSize); copy

#### Duplex and transform streams#

##### Class: `stream.Duplex`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.8.0 | Instances of `Duplex` now return `true` when checking `instanceof stream.Writable`.  
v0.9.4 | Added in: v0.9.4  
  
Duplex streams are streams that implement both the `Readable` and `Writable`
interfaces.

Examples of `Duplex` streams include:

  * TCP sockets
  * [zlib streams](zlib.html)
  * [crypto streams](crypto.html)

###### `duplex.allowHalfOpen`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

If `false` then the stream will automatically end the writable side when the
readable side ends. Set initially by the `allowHalfOpen` constructor option,
which defaults to `true`.

This can be changed manually to change the half-open behavior of an existing
`Duplex` stream instance, but must be changed before the `'end'` event is
emitted.

##### Class: `stream.Transform`#

Added in: v0.9.4

Transform streams are `Duplex` streams where the output is in some way related
to the input. Like all `Duplex` streams, `Transform` streams implement both
the `Readable` and `Writable` interfaces.

Examples of `Transform` streams include:

  * [zlib streams](zlib.html)
  * [crypto streams](crypto.html)

###### `transform.destroy([error])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.0.0 | Work as a no-op on a stream that has already been destroyed.  
v8.0.0 | Added in: v8.0.0  
  
  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this)

Destroy the stream, and optionally emit an `'error'` event. After this call,
the transform stream would release any internal resources. Implementors should
not override this method, but instead implement `readable._destroy()`. The
default implementation of `_destroy()` for `Transform` also emit `'close'`
unless `emitClose` is set in false.

Once `destroy()` has been called, any further calls will be a no-op and no
further errors except from `_destroy()` may be emitted as `'error'`.

##### `stream.duplexPair([options])`#

Added in: v22.6.0, v20.17.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) A value to pass to both `Duplex` constructors, to set options such as buffering.
  * Returns: [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) of two `Duplex` instances.

The utility function `duplexPair` returns an Array with two items, each being
a `Duplex` stream connected to the other side:

    
    
    const [ sideA, sideB ] = duplexPair(); copy

Whatever is written to one stream is made readable on the other. It provides
behavior analogous to a network connection, where the data written by the
client becomes readable by the server, and vice-versa.

The Duplex streams are symmetrical; one or the other may be used without any
difference in behavior.

#### `stream.finished(stream[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.5.0 | Added support for `ReadableStream` and `WritableStream`.  
v15.11.0 | The `signal` option was added.  
v14.0.0 | The `finished(stream, cb)` will wait for the `'close'` event before invoking the callback. The implementation tries to detect legacy streams and only apply this behavior to streams which are expected to emit `'close'`.  
v14.0.0 | Emitting `'close'` before `'end'` on a `Readable` stream will cause an `ERR_STREAM_PREMATURE_CLOSE` error.  
v14.0.0 | Callback will be invoked on streams which have already finished before the call to `finished(stream, cb)`.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `stream` <Stream> | <ReadableStream> | <WritableStream> A readable and/or writable stream/webstream.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `error` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `false`, then a call to `emit('error', err)` is not treated as finished. **Default:** `true`.
    * `readable` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When set to `false`, the callback will be called when the stream ends even though the stream might still be readable. **Default:** `true`.
    * `writable` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When set to `false`, the callback will be called when the stream ends even though the stream might still be writable. **Default:** `true`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> allows aborting the wait for the stream finish. The underlying stream will _not_ be aborted if the signal is aborted. The callback will get called with an `AbortError`. All registered listeners added by this function will also be removed.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A callback function that takes an optional error argument.
  * Returns: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A cleanup function which removes all registered listeners.

A function to get notified when a stream is no longer readable, writable or
has experienced an error or a premature close event.

    
    
    const { finished } = require('node:stream');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    const rs = fs.createReadStream('archive.tar');
    
    finished(rs, (err) => {
      if (err) {
        console.error('Stream failed.', err);
      } else {
        console.log('Stream is done reading.');
      }
    });
    
    rs.resume(); // Drain the stream. copy

Especially useful in error handling scenarios where a stream is destroyed
prematurely (like an aborted HTTP request), and will not emit `'end'` or
`'finish'`.

The `finished` API provides promise version.

`stream.finished()` leaves dangling event listeners (in particular `'error'`,
`'end'`, `'finish'` and `'close'`) after `callback` has been invoked. The
reason for this is so that unexpected `'error'` events (due to incorrect
stream implementations) do not cause unexpected crashes. If this is unwanted
behavior then the returned cleanup function needs to be invoked in the
callback:

    
    
    const cleanup = finished(rs, (err) => {
      cleanup();
      // ...
    }); copy

#### `stream.pipeline(source[, ...transforms], destination, callback)`#

#### `stream.pipeline(streams, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.7.0, v18.16.0 | Added support for webstreams.  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v14.0.0 | The `pipeline(..., cb)` will wait for the `'close'` event before invoking the callback. The implementation tries to detect legacy streams and only apply this behavior to streams which are expected to emit `'close'`.  
v13.10.0 | Add support for async generators.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
  * `streams` <Stream[]> | [<Iterable[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterable_protocol) | [<AsyncIterable[]>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface) | [<Function[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <ReadableStream[]> | <WritableStream[]> | <TransformStream[]>
  * `source` <Stream> | [<Iterable>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterable_protocol) | [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface) | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <ReadableStream>
    * Returns: [<Iterable>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterable_protocol) | [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface)
  * `...transforms` <Stream> | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <TransformStream>
    * `source` [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface)
    * Returns: [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface)
  * `destination` <Stream> | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <WritableStream>
    * `source` [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface)
    * Returns: [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface) | [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Called when the pipeline is fully done. 
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `val` Resolved value of `Promise` returned by `destination`.
  * Returns: <Stream>

A module method to pipe between streams and generators forwarding errors and
properly cleaning up and provide a callback when the pipeline is complete.

    
    
    const { pipeline } = require('node:stream');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const zlib = require('node:zlib');
    
    // Use the pipeline API to easily pipe a series of streams
    // together and get notified when the pipeline is fully done.
    
    // A pipeline to gzip a potentially huge tar file efficiently:
    
    pipeline(
      fs.createReadStream('archive.tar'),
      zlib.createGzip(),
      fs.createWriteStream('archive.tar.gz'),
      (err) => {
        if (err) {
          console.error('Pipeline failed.', err);
        } else {
          console.log('Pipeline succeeded.');
        }
      },
    ); copy

The `pipeline` API provides a promise version.

`stream.pipeline()` will call `stream.destroy(err)` on all streams except:

  * `Readable` streams which have emitted `'end'` or `'close'`.
  * `Writable` streams which have emitted `'finish'` or `'close'`.

`stream.pipeline()` leaves dangling event listeners on the streams after the
`callback` has been invoked. In the case of reuse of streams after failure,
this can cause event listener leaks and swallowed errors. If the last stream
is readable, dangling event listeners will be removed so that the last stream
can be consumed later.

`stream.pipeline()` closes all the streams when an error is raised. The
`IncomingRequest` usage with `pipeline` could lead to an unexpected behavior
once it would destroy the socket without sending the expected response. See
the example below:

    
    
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const http = require('node:http');
    const { pipeline } = require('node:stream');
    
    const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
      const fileStream = fs.createReadStream('./fileNotExist.txt');
      pipeline(fileStream, res, (err) => {
        if (err) {
          console.log(err); // No such file
          // this message can't be sent once `pipeline` already destroyed the socket
          return res.end('error!!!');
        }
      });
    }); copy

#### `stream.compose(...streams)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.1.0, v20.10.0 | Added support for stream class.  
v19.8.0, v18.16.0 | Added support for webstreams.  
v16.9.0 | Added in: v16.9.0  
  
Stability: 1 \- `stream.compose` is experimental.

  * `streams` <Stream[]> | [<Iterable[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterable_protocol) | [<AsyncIterable[]>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface) | [<Function[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <ReadableStream[]> | <WritableStream[]> | <TransformStream[]> | <Duplex[]> | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <stream.Duplex>

Combines two or more streams into a `Duplex` stream that writes to the first
stream and reads from the last. Each provided stream is piped into the next,
using `stream.pipeline`. If any of the streams error then all are destroyed,
including the outer `Duplex` stream.

Because `stream.compose` returns a new stream that in turn can (and should) be
piped into other streams, it enables composition. In contrast, when passing
streams to `stream.pipeline`, typically the first stream is a readable stream
and the last a writable stream, forming a closed circuit.

If passed a `Function` it must be a factory method taking a `source`
`Iterable`.

    
    
    import { compose, Transform } from 'node:stream';
    
    const removeSpaces = new Transform({
      transform(chunk, encoding, callback) {
        callback(null, String(chunk).replace(' ', ''));
      },
    });
    
    async function* toUpper(source) {
      for await (const chunk of source) {
        yield String(chunk).toUpperCase();
      }
    }
    
    let res = '';
    for await (const buf of compose(removeSpaces, toUpper).end('hello world')) {
      res += buf;
    }
    
    console.log(res); // prints 'HELLOWORLD' copy

`stream.compose` can be used to convert async iterables, generators and
functions into streams.

  * `AsyncIterable` converts into a readable `Duplex`. Cannot yield `null`.
  * `AsyncGeneratorFunction` converts into a readable/writable transform `Duplex`. Must take a source `AsyncIterable` as first parameter. Cannot yield `null`.
  * `AsyncFunction` converts into a writable `Duplex`. Must return either `null` or `undefined`.

    
    
    import { compose } from 'node:stream';
    import { finished } from 'node:stream/promises';
    
    // Convert AsyncIterable into readable Duplex.
    const s1 = compose(async function*() {
      yield 'Hello';
      yield 'World';
    }());
    
    // Convert AsyncGenerator into transform Duplex.
    const s2 = compose(async function*(source) {
      for await (const chunk of source) {
        yield String(chunk).toUpperCase();
      }
    });
    
    let res = '';
    
    // Convert AsyncFunction into writable Duplex.
    const s3 = compose(async function(source) {
      for await (const chunk of source) {
        res += chunk;
      }
    });
    
    await finished(compose(s1, s2, s3));
    
    console.log(res); // prints 'HELLOWORLD' copy

See `readable.compose(stream)` for `stream.compose` as operator.

#### `stream.Readable.from(iterable[, options])`#

Added in: v12.3.0, v10.17.0

  * `iterable` [<Iterable>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterable_protocol) Object implementing the `Symbol.asyncIterator` or `Symbol.iterator` iterable protocol. Emits an 'error' event if a null value is passed.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Options provided to `new stream.Readable([options])`. By default, `Readable.from()` will set `options.objectMode` to `true`, unless this is explicitly opted out by setting `options.objectMode` to `false`.
  * Returns: <stream.Readable>

A utility method for creating readable streams out of iterators.

    
    
    const { Readable } = require('node:stream');
    
    async function * generate() {
      yield 'hello';
      yield 'streams';
    }
    
    const readable = Readable.from(generate());
    
    readable.on('data', (chunk) => {
      console.log(chunk);
    }); copy

Calling `Readable.from(string)` or `Readable.from(buffer)` will not have the
strings or buffers be iterated to match the other streams semantics for
performance reasons.

If an `Iterable` object containing promises is passed as an argument, it might
result in unhandled rejection.

    
    
    const { Readable } = require('node:stream');
    
    Readable.from([
      new Promise((resolve) => setTimeout(resolve('1'), 1500)),
      new Promise((_, reject) => setTimeout(reject(new Error('2')), 1000)), // Unhandled rejection
    ]); copy

#### `stream.Readable.fromWeb(readableStream[, options])`#

Added in: v17.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `readableStream` <ReadableStream>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `objectMode` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
    * `signal` <AbortSignal>
  * Returns: <stream.Readable>

#### `stream.Readable.isDisturbed(stream)`#

Added in: v16.8.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `stream` <stream.Readable> | <ReadableStream>
  * Returns: `boolean`

Returns whether the stream has been read from or cancelled.

#### `stream.isErrored(stream)`#

Added in: v17.3.0, v16.14.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `stream` <Readable> | <Writable> | <Duplex> | <WritableStream> | <ReadableStream>
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns whether the stream has encountered an error.

#### `stream.isReadable(stream)`#

Added in: v17.4.0, v16.14.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `stream` <Readable> | <Duplex> | <ReadableStream>
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns whether the stream is readable.

#### `stream.Readable.toWeb(streamReadable[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.7.0 | include strategy options on Readable.  
v17.0.0 | Added in: v17.0.0  
  
Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `streamReadable` <stream.Readable>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `strategy` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
      * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The maximum internal queue size (of the created `ReadableStream`) before backpressure is applied in reading from the given `stream.Readable`. If no value is provided, it will be taken from the given `stream.Readable`.
      * `size` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A function that size of the given chunk of data. If no value is provided, the size will be `1` for all the chunks. 
        * `chunk` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
        * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * Returns: <ReadableStream>

#### `stream.Writable.fromWeb(writableStream[, options])`#

Added in: v17.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `writableStream` <WritableStream>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `decodeStrings` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
    * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `objectMode` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
    * `signal` <AbortSignal>
  * Returns: <stream.Writable>

#### `stream.Writable.toWeb(streamWritable)`#

Added in: v17.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `streamWritable` <stream.Writable>
  * Returns: <WritableStream>

#### `stream.Duplex.from(src)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.5.0, v18.17.0 | The `src` argument can now be a `ReadableStream` or `WritableStream`.  
v16.8.0 | Added in: v16.8.0  
  
  * `src` <Stream> | <Blob> | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Iterable>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterable_protocol) | [<AsyncIterable>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterable-interface) | [<AsyncGeneratorFunction>](https://tc39.es/proposal-async-iteration/#sec-asyncgeneratorfunction-constructor) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) | [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | <ReadableStream> | <WritableStream>

A utility method for creating duplex streams.

  * `Stream` converts writable stream into writable `Duplex` and readable stream to `Duplex`.
  * `Blob` converts into readable `Duplex`.
  * `string` converts into readable `Duplex`.
  * `ArrayBuffer` converts into readable `Duplex`.
  * `AsyncIterable` converts into a readable `Duplex`. Cannot yield `null`.
  * `AsyncGeneratorFunction` converts into a readable/writable transform `Duplex`. Must take a source `AsyncIterable` as first parameter. Cannot yield `null`.
  * `AsyncFunction` converts into a writable `Duplex`. Must return either `null` or `undefined`
  * `Object ({ writable, readable })` converts `readable` and `writable` into `Stream` and then combines them into `Duplex` where the `Duplex` will write to the `writable` and read from the `readable`.
  * `Promise` converts into readable `Duplex`. Value `null` is ignored.
  * `ReadableStream` converts into readable `Duplex`.
  * `WritableStream` converts into writable `Duplex`.
  * Returns: <stream.Duplex>

If an `Iterable` object containing promises is passed as an argument, it might
result in unhandled rejection.

    
    
    const { Duplex } = require('node:stream');
    
    Duplex.from([
      new Promise((resolve) => setTimeout(resolve('1'), 1500)),
      new Promise((_, reject) => setTimeout(reject(new Error('2')), 1000)), // Unhandled rejection
    ]); copy

#### `stream.Duplex.fromWeb(pair[, options])`#

Added in: v17.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `pair` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `readable` <ReadableStream>
    * `writable` <WritableStream>
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `allowHalfOpen` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
    * `decodeStrings` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `objectMode` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
    * `signal` <AbortSignal>
  * Returns: <stream.Duplex>

    
    
    import { Duplex } from 'node:stream';
    import {
      ReadableStream,
      WritableStream,
    } from 'node:stream/web';
    
    const readable = new ReadableStream({
      start(controller) {
        controller.enqueue('world');
      },
    });
    
    const writable = new WritableStream({
      write(chunk) {
        console.log('writable', chunk);
      },
    });
    
    const pair = {
      readable,
      writable,
    };
    const duplex = Duplex.fromWeb(pair, { encoding: 'utf8', objectMode: true });
    
    duplex.write('hello');
    
    for await (const chunk of duplex) {
      console.log('readable', chunk);
    }const { Duplex } = require('node:stream');
    const {
      ReadableStream,
      WritableStream,
    } = require('node:stream/web');
    
    const readable = new ReadableStream({
      start(controller) {
        controller.enqueue('world');
      },
    });
    
    const writable = new WritableStream({
      write(chunk) {
        console.log('writable', chunk);
      },
    });
    
    const pair = {
      readable,
      writable,
    };
    const duplex = Duplex.fromWeb(pair, { encoding: 'utf8', objectMode: true });
    
    duplex.write('hello');
    duplex.once('readable', () => console.log('readable', duplex.read()));copy

#### `stream.Duplex.toWeb(streamDuplex)`#

Added in: v17.0.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `streamDuplex` <stream.Duplex>
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `readable` <ReadableStream>
    * `writable` <WritableStream>

    
    
    import { Duplex } from 'node:stream';
    
    const duplex = Duplex({
      objectMode: true,
      read() {
        this.push('world');
        this.push(null);
      },
      write(chunk, encoding, callback) {
        console.log('writable', chunk);
        callback();
      },
    });
    
    const { readable, writable } = Duplex.toWeb(duplex);
    writable.getWriter().write('hello');
    
    const { value } = await readable.getReader().read();
    console.log('readable', value);const { Duplex } = require('node:stream');
    
    const duplex = Duplex({
      objectMode: true,
      read() {
        this.push('world');
        this.push(null);
      },
      write(chunk, encoding, callback) {
        console.log('writable', chunk);
        callback();
      },
    });
    
    const { readable, writable } = Duplex.toWeb(duplex);
    writable.getWriter().write('hello');
    
    readable.getReader().read().then((result) => {
      console.log('readable', result.value);
    });copy

#### `stream.addAbortSignal(signal, stream)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.7.0, v18.16.0 | Added support for `ReadableStream` and `WritableStream`.  
v15.4.0 | Added in: v15.4.0  
  
  * `signal` <AbortSignal> A signal representing possible cancellation
  * `stream` <Stream> | <ReadableStream> | <WritableStream> A stream to attach a signal to.

Attaches an AbortSignal to a readable or writeable stream. This lets code
control stream destruction using an `AbortController`.

Calling `abort` on the `AbortController` corresponding to the passed
`AbortSignal` will behave the same way as calling `.destroy(new AbortError())`
on the stream, and `controller.error(new AbortError())` for webstreams.

    
    
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    const controller = new AbortController();
    const read = addAbortSignal(
      controller.signal,
      fs.createReadStream(('object.json')),
    );
    // Later, abort the operation closing the stream
    controller.abort(); copy

Or using an `AbortSignal` with a readable stream as an async iterable:

    
    
    const controller = new AbortController();
    setTimeout(() => controller.abort(), 10_000); // set a timeout
    const stream = addAbortSignal(
      controller.signal,
      fs.createReadStream(('object.json')),
    );
    (async () => {
      try {
        for await (const chunk of stream) {
          await process(chunk);
        }
      } catch (e) {
        if (e.name === 'AbortError') {
          // The operation was cancelled
        } else {
          throw e;
        }
      }
    })(); copy

Or using an `AbortSignal` with a ReadableStream:

    
    
    const controller = new AbortController();
    const rs = new ReadableStream({
      start(controller) {
        controller.enqueue('hello');
        controller.enqueue('world');
        controller.close();
      },
    });
    
    addAbortSignal(controller.signal, rs);
    
    finished(rs, (err) => {
      if (err) {
        if (err.name === 'AbortError') {
          // The operation was cancelled
        }
      }
    });
    
    const reader = rs.getReader();
    
    reader.read().then(({ value, done }) => {
      console.log(value); // hello
      console.log(done); // false
      controller.abort();
    }); copy

#### `stream.getDefaultHighWaterMark(objectMode)`#

Added in: v19.9.0, v18.17.0

  * `objectMode` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the default highWaterMark used by streams. Defaults to `65536` (64
KiB), or `16` for `objectMode`.

#### `stream.setDefaultHighWaterMark(objectMode, value)`#

Added in: v19.9.0, v18.17.0

  * `objectMode` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
  * `value` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) highWaterMark value

Sets the default highWaterMark used by streams.

### API for stream implementers#

The `node:stream` module API has been designed to make it possible to easily
implement streams using JavaScript's prototypal inheritance model.

First, a stream developer would declare a new JavaScript class that extends
one of the four basic stream classes (`stream.Writable`, `stream.Readable`,
`stream.Duplex`, or `stream.Transform`), making sure they call the appropriate
parent class constructor:

    
    
    const { Writable } = require('node:stream');
    
    class MyWritable extends Writable {
      constructor({ highWaterMark, ...options }) {
        super({ highWaterMark });
        // ...
      }
    } copy

When extending streams, keep in mind what options the user can and should
provide before forwarding these to the base constructor. For example, if the
implementation makes assumptions in regard to the `autoDestroy` and
`emitClose` options, do not allow the user to override these. Be explicit
about what options are forwarded instead of implicitly forwarding all options.

The new stream class must then implement one or more specific methods,
depending on the type of stream being created, as detailed in the chart below:

Use-case| Class| Method(s) to implement  
---|---|---  
Reading only| `Readable`| `_read()`  
Writing only| `Writable`| `_write()`, `_writev()`, `_final()`  
Reading and writing| `Duplex`| `_read()`, `_write()`, `_writev()`, `_final()`  
Operate on written data, then read the result| `Transform`| `_transform()`,
`_flush()`, `_final()`  
  
The implementation code for a stream should _never_ call the "public" methods
of a stream that are intended for use by consumers (as described in the API
for stream consumers section). Doing so may lead to adverse side effects in
application code consuming the stream.

Avoid overriding public methods such as `write()`, `end()`, `cork()`,
`uncork()`, `read()` and `destroy()`, or emitting internal events such as
`'error'`, `'data'`, `'end'`, `'finish'` and `'close'` through `.emit()`.
Doing so can break current and future stream invariants leading to behavior
and/or compatibility issues with other streams, stream utilities, and user
expectations.

#### Simplified construction#

Added in: v1.2.0

For many simple cases, it is possible to create a stream without relying on
inheritance. This can be accomplished by directly creating instances of the
`stream.Writable`, `stream.Readable`, `stream.Duplex`, or `stream.Transform`
objects and passing appropriate methods as constructor options.

    
    
    const { Writable } = require('node:stream');
    
    const myWritable = new Writable({
      construct(callback) {
        // Initialize state and load resources...
      },
      write(chunk, encoding, callback) {
        // ...
      },
      destroy() {
        // Free resources...
      },
    }); copy

#### Implementing a writable stream#

The `stream.Writable` class is extended to implement a `Writable` stream.

Custom `Writable` streams _must_ call the `new stream.Writable([options])`
constructor and implement the `writable._write()` and/or `writable._writev()`
method.

##### `new stream.Writable([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0 | bump default highWaterMark.  
v15.5.0 | support passing in an AbortSignal.  
v14.0.0 | Change `autoDestroy` option default to `true`.  
v11.2.0, v10.16.0 | Add `autoDestroy` option to automatically `destroy()` the stream when it emits `'finish'` or errors.  
v10.0.0 | Add `emitClose` option to specify if `'close'` is emitted on destroy.  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Buffer level when `stream.write()` starts returning `false`. **Default:** `65536` (64 KiB), or `16` for `objectMode` streams.
    * `decodeStrings` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether to encode `string`s passed to `stream.write()` to `Buffer`s (with the encoding specified in the `stream.write()` call) before passing them to `stream._write()`. Other types of data are not converted (i.e. `Buffer`s are not decoded into `string`s). Setting to false will prevent `string`s from being converted. **Default:** `true`.
    * `defaultEncoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The default encoding that is used when no encoding is specified as an argument to `stream.write()`. **Default:** `'utf8'`.
    * `objectMode` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether or not the `stream.write(anyObj)` is a valid operation. When set, it becomes possible to write JavaScript values other than string, <Buffer>, [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) or [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) if supported by the stream implementation. **Default:** `false`.
    * `emitClose` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether or not the stream should emit `'close'` after it has been destroyed. **Default:** `true`.
    * `write` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Implementation for the `stream._write()` method.
    * `writev` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Implementation for the `stream._writev()` method.
    * `destroy` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Implementation for the `stream._destroy()` method.
    * `final` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Implementation for the `stream._final()` method.
    * `construct` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Implementation for the `stream._construct()` method.
    * `autoDestroy` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether this stream should automatically call `.destroy()` on itself after ending. **Default:** `true`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> A signal representing possible cancellation.

    
    
    const { Writable } = require('node:stream');
    
    class MyWritable extends Writable {
      constructor(options) {
        // Calls the stream.Writable() constructor.
        super(options);
        // ...
      }
    } copy

Or, when using pre-ES6 style constructors:

    
    
    const { Writable } = require('node:stream');
    const util = require('node:util');
    
    function MyWritable(options) {
      if (!(this instanceof MyWritable))
        return new MyWritable(options);
      Writable.call(this, options);
    }
    util.inherits(MyWritable, Writable); copy

Or, using the simplified constructor approach:

    
    
    const { Writable } = require('node:stream');
    
    const myWritable = new Writable({
      write(chunk, encoding, callback) {
        // ...
      },
      writev(chunks, callback) {
        // ...
      },
    }); copy

Calling `abort` on the `AbortController` corresponding to the passed
`AbortSignal` will behave the same way as calling `.destroy(new AbortError())`
on the writeable stream.

    
    
    const { Writable } = require('node:stream');
    
    const controller = new AbortController();
    const myWritable = new Writable({
      write(chunk, encoding, callback) {
        // ...
      },
      writev(chunks, callback) {
        // ...
      },
      signal: controller.signal,
    });
    // Later, abort the operation closing the stream
    controller.abort(); copy

##### `writable._construct(callback)`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Call this function (optionally with an error argument) when the stream has finished initializing.

The `_construct()` method MUST NOT be called directly. It may be implemented
by child classes, and if so, will be called by the internal `Writable` class
methods only.

This optional function will be called in a tick after the stream constructor
has returned, delaying any `_write()`, `_final()` and `_destroy()` calls until
`callback` is called. This is useful to initialize state or asynchronously
initialize resources before the stream can be used.

    
    
    const { Writable } = require('node:stream');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    class WriteStream extends Writable {
      constructor(filename) {
        super();
        this.filename = filename;
        this.fd = null;
      }
      _construct(callback) {
        fs.open(this.filename, 'w', (err, fd) => {
          if (err) {
            callback(err);
          } else {
            this.fd = fd;
            callback();
          }
        });
      }
      _write(chunk, encoding, callback) {
        fs.write(this.fd, chunk, callback);
      }
      _destroy(err, callback) {
        if (this.fd) {
          fs.close(this.fd, (er) => callback(er || err));
        } else {
          callback(err);
        }
      }
    } copy

##### `writable._write(chunk, encoding, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.11.0 | _write() is optional when providing _writev().  
  
  * `chunk` <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The `Buffer` to be written, converted from the `string` passed to `stream.write()`. If the stream's `decodeStrings` option is `false` or the stream is operating in object mode, the chunk will not be converted & will be whatever was passed to `stream.write()`.
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If the chunk is a string, then `encoding` is the character encoding of that string. If chunk is a `Buffer`, or if the stream is operating in object mode, `encoding` may be ignored.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Call this function (optionally with an error argument) when processing is complete for the supplied chunk.

All `Writable` stream implementations must provide a `writable._write()`
and/or `writable._writev()` method to send data to the underlying resource.

`Transform` streams provide their own implementation of the
`writable._write()`.

This function MUST NOT be called by application code directly. It should be
implemented by child classes, and called by the internal `Writable` class
methods only.

The `callback` function must be called synchronously inside of
`writable._write()` or asynchronously (i.e. different tick) to signal either
that the write completed successfully or failed with an error. The first
argument passed to the `callback` must be the `Error` object if the call
failed or `null` if the write succeeded.

All calls to `writable.write()` that occur between the time
`writable._write()` is called and the `callback` is called will cause the
written data to be buffered. When the `callback` is invoked, the stream might
emit a `'drain'` event. If a stream implementation is capable of processing
multiple chunks of data at once, the `writable._writev()` method should be
implemented.

If the `decodeStrings` property is explicitly set to `false` in the
constructor options, then `chunk` will remain the same object that is passed
to `.write()`, and may be a string rather than a `Buffer`. This is to support
implementations that have an optimized handling for certain string data
encodings. In that case, the `encoding` argument will indicate the character
encoding of the string. Otherwise, the `encoding` argument can be safely
ignored.

The `writable._write()` method is prefixed with an underscore because it is
internal to the class that defines it, and should never be called directly by
user programs.

##### `writable._writev(chunks, callback)`#

  * `chunks` [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The data to be written. The value is an array of [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) that each represent a discrete chunk of data to write. The properties of these objects are: 
    * `chunk` <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A buffer instance or string containing the data to be written. The `chunk` will be a string if the `Writable` was created with the `decodeStrings` option set to `false` and a string was passed to `write()`.
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The character encoding of the `chunk`. If `chunk` is a `Buffer`, the `encoding` will be `'buffer'`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A callback function (optionally with an error argument) to be invoked when processing is complete for the supplied chunks.

This function MUST NOT be called by application code directly. It should be
implemented by child classes, and called by the internal `Writable` class
methods only.

The `writable._writev()` method may be implemented in addition or
alternatively to `writable._write()` in stream implementations that are
capable of processing multiple chunks of data at once. If implemented and if
there is buffered data from previous writes, `_writev()` will be called
instead of `_write()`.

The `writable._writev()` method is prefixed with an underscore because it is
internal to the class that defines it, and should never be called directly by
user programs.

##### `writable._destroy(err, callback)`#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) A possible error.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A callback function that takes an optional error argument.

The `_destroy()` method is called by `writable.destroy()`. It can be
overridden by child classes but it **must not** be called directly.

##### `writable._final(callback)`#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Call this function (optionally with an error argument) when finished writing any remaining data.

The `_final()` method **must not** be called directly. It may be implemented
by child classes, and if so, will be called by the internal `Writable` class
methods only.

This optional function will be called before the stream closes, delaying the
`'finish'` event until `callback` is called. This is useful to close resources
or write buffered data before a stream ends.

##### Errors while writing#

Errors occurring during the processing of the `writable._write()`,
`writable._writev()` and `writable._final()` methods must be propagated by
invoking the callback and passing the error as the first argument. Throwing an
`Error` from within these methods or manually emitting an `'error'` event
results in undefined behavior.

If a `Readable` stream pipes into a `Writable` stream when `Writable` emits an
error, the `Readable` stream will be unpiped.

    
    
    const { Writable } = require('node:stream');
    
    const myWritable = new Writable({
      write(chunk, encoding, callback) {
        if (chunk.toString().indexOf('a') >= 0) {
          callback(new Error('chunk is invalid'));
        } else {
          callback();
        }
      },
    }); copy

##### An example writable stream#

The following illustrates a rather simplistic (and somewhat pointless) custom
`Writable` stream implementation. While this specific `Writable` stream
instance is not of any real particular usefulness, the example illustrates
each of the required elements of a custom `Writable` stream instance:

    
    
    const { Writable } = require('node:stream');
    
    class MyWritable extends Writable {
      _write(chunk, encoding, callback) {
        if (chunk.toString().indexOf('a') >= 0) {
          callback(new Error('chunk is invalid'));
        } else {
          callback();
        }
      }
    } copy

##### Decoding buffers in a writable stream#

Decoding buffers is a common task, for instance, when using transformers whose
input is a string. This is not a trivial process when using multi-byte
characters encoding, such as UTF-8. The following example shows how to decode
multi-byte strings using `StringDecoder` and `Writable`.

    
    
    const { Writable } = require('node:stream');
    const { StringDecoder } = require('node:string_decoder');
    
    class StringWritable extends Writable {
      constructor(options) {
        super(options);
        this._decoder = new StringDecoder(options?.defaultEncoding);
        this.data = '';
      }
      _write(chunk, encoding, callback) {
        if (encoding === 'buffer') {
          chunk = this._decoder.write(chunk);
        }
        this.data += chunk;
        callback();
      }
      _final(callback) {
        this.data += this._decoder.end();
        callback();
      }
    }
    
    const euro = [[0xE2, 0x82], [0xAC]].map(Buffer.from);
    const w = new StringWritable();
    
    w.write('currency: ');
    w.write(euro[0]);
    w.end(euro[1]);
    
    console.log(w.data); // currency: € copy

#### Implementing a readable stream#

The `stream.Readable` class is extended to implement a `Readable` stream.

Custom `Readable` streams _must_ call the `new stream.Readable([options])`
constructor and implement the `readable._read()` method.

##### `new stream.Readable([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0 | bump default highWaterMark.  
v15.5.0 | support passing in an AbortSignal.  
v14.0.0 | Change `autoDestroy` option default to `true`.  
v11.2.0, v10.16.0 | Add `autoDestroy` option to automatically `destroy()` the stream when it emits `'end'` or errors.  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The maximum number of bytes to store in the internal buffer before ceasing to read from the underlying resource. **Default:** `65536` (64 KiB), or `16` for `objectMode` streams.
    * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If specified, then buffers will be decoded to strings using the specified encoding. **Default:** `null`.
    * `objectMode` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether this stream should behave as a stream of objects. Meaning that `stream.read(n)` returns a single value instead of a `Buffer` of size `n`. **Default:** `false`.
    * `emitClose` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether or not the stream should emit `'close'` after it has been destroyed. **Default:** `true`.
    * `read` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Implementation for the `stream._read()` method.
    * `destroy` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Implementation for the `stream._destroy()` method.
    * `construct` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Implementation for the `stream._construct()` method.
    * `autoDestroy` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether this stream should automatically call `.destroy()` on itself after ending. **Default:** `true`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> A signal representing possible cancellation.

    
    
    const { Readable } = require('node:stream');
    
    class MyReadable extends Readable {
      constructor(options) {
        // Calls the stream.Readable(options) constructor.
        super(options);
        // ...
      }
    } copy

Or, when using pre-ES6 style constructors:

    
    
    const { Readable } = require('node:stream');
    const util = require('node:util');
    
    function MyReadable(options) {
      if (!(this instanceof MyReadable))
        return new MyReadable(options);
      Readable.call(this, options);
    }
    util.inherits(MyReadable, Readable); copy

Or, using the simplified constructor approach:

    
    
    const { Readable } = require('node:stream');
    
    const myReadable = new Readable({
      read(size) {
        // ...
      },
    }); copy

Calling `abort` on the `AbortController` corresponding to the passed
`AbortSignal` will behave the same way as calling `.destroy(new AbortError())`
on the readable created.

    
    
    const { Readable } = require('node:stream');
    const controller = new AbortController();
    const read = new Readable({
      read(size) {
        // ...
      },
      signal: controller.signal,
    });
    // Later, abort the operation closing the stream
    controller.abort(); copy

##### `readable._construct(callback)`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Call this function (optionally with an error argument) when the stream has finished initializing.

The `_construct()` method MUST NOT be called directly. It may be implemented
by child classes, and if so, will be called by the internal `Readable` class
methods only.

This optional function will be scheduled in the next tick by the stream
constructor, delaying any `_read()` and `_destroy()` calls until `callback` is
called. This is useful to initialize state or asynchronously initialize
resources before the stream can be used.

    
    
    const { Readable } = require('node:stream');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    class ReadStream extends Readable {
      constructor(filename) {
        super();
        this.filename = filename;
        this.fd = null;
      }
      _construct(callback) {
        fs.open(this.filename, (err, fd) => {
          if (err) {
            callback(err);
          } else {
            this.fd = fd;
            callback();
          }
        });
      }
      _read(n) {
        const buf = Buffer.alloc(n);
        fs.read(this.fd, buf, 0, n, null, (err, bytesRead) => {
          if (err) {
            this.destroy(err);
          } else {
            this.push(bytesRead > 0 ? buf.slice(0, bytesRead) : null);
          }
        });
      }
      _destroy(err, callback) {
        if (this.fd) {
          fs.close(this.fd, (er) => callback(er || err));
        } else {
          callback(err);
        }
      }
    } copy

##### `readable._read(size)`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * `size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes to read asynchronously

This function MUST NOT be called by application code directly. It should be
implemented by child classes, and called by the internal `Readable` class
methods only.

All `Readable` stream implementations must provide an implementation of the
`readable._read()` method to fetch data from the underlying resource.

When `readable._read()` is called, if data is available from the resource, the
implementation should begin pushing that data into the read queue using the
`this.push(dataChunk)` method. `_read()` will be called again after each call
to `this.push(dataChunk)` once the stream is ready to accept more data.
`_read()` may continue reading from the resource and pushing data until
`readable.push()` returns `false`. Only when `_read()` is called again after
it has stopped should it resume pushing additional data into the queue.

Once the `readable._read()` method has been called, it will not be called
again until more data is pushed through the `readable.push()` method. Empty
data such as empty buffers and strings will not cause `readable._read()` to be
called.

The `size` argument is advisory. For implementations where a "read" is a
single operation that returns data can use the `size` argument to determine
how much data to fetch. Other implementations may ignore this argument and
simply provide data whenever it becomes available. There is no need to "wait"
until `size` bytes are available before calling `stream.push(chunk)`.

The `readable._read()` method is prefixed with an underscore because it is
internal to the class that defines it, and should never be called directly by
user programs.

##### `readable._destroy(err, callback)`#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) A possible error.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A callback function that takes an optional error argument.

The `_destroy()` method is called by `readable.destroy()`. It can be
overridden by child classes but it **must not** be called directly.

##### `readable.push(chunk[, encoding])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.0.0, v20.13.0 | The `chunk` argument can now be a `TypedArray` or `DataView` instance.  
v8.0.0 | The `chunk` argument can now be a `Uint8Array` instance.  
  
  * `chunk` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Chunk of data to push into the read queue. For streams not operating in object mode, `chunk` must be a [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type), <Buffer>, [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) or [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView). For object mode streams, `chunk` may be any JavaScript value.
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Encoding of string chunks. Must be a valid `Buffer` encoding, such as `'utf8'` or `'ascii'`.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if additional chunks of data may continue to be pushed; `false` otherwise.

When `chunk` is a <Buffer>, [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray),
[<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) or
[<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type), the `chunk` of data will
be added to the internal queue for users of the stream to consume. Passing
`chunk` as `null` signals the end of the stream (EOF), after which no more
data can be written.

When the `Readable` is operating in paused mode, the data added with
`readable.push()` can be read out by calling the `readable.read()` method when
the `'readable'` event is emitted.

When the `Readable` is operating in flowing mode, the data added with
`readable.push()` will be delivered by emitting a `'data'` event.

The `readable.push()` method is designed to be as flexible as possible. For
example, when wrapping a lower-level source that provides some form of
pause/resume mechanism, and a data callback, the low-level source can be
wrapped by the custom `Readable` instance:

    
    
    // `_source` is an object with readStop() and readStart() methods,
    // and an `ondata` member that gets called when it has data, and
    // an `onend` member that gets called when the data is over.
    
    class SourceWrapper extends Readable {
      constructor(options) {
        super(options);
    
        this._source = getLowLevelSourceObject();
    
        // Every time there's data, push it into the internal buffer.
        this._source.ondata = (chunk) => {
          // If push() returns false, then stop reading from source.
          if (!this.push(chunk))
            this._source.readStop();
        };
    
        // When the source ends, push the EOF-signaling `null` chunk.
        this._source.onend = () => {
          this.push(null);
        };
      }
      // _read() will be called when the stream wants to pull more data in.
      // The advisory size argument is ignored in this case.
      _read(size) {
        this._source.readStart();
      }
    } copy

The `readable.push()` method is used to push the content into the internal
buffer. It can be driven by the `readable._read()` method.

For streams not operating in object mode, if the `chunk` parameter of
`readable.push()` is `undefined`, it will be treated as empty string or
buffer. See `readable.push('')` for more information.

##### Errors while reading#

Errors occurring during processing of the `readable._read()` must be
propagated through the `readable.destroy(err)` method. Throwing an `Error`
from within `readable._read()` or manually emitting an `'error'` event results
in undefined behavior.

    
    
    const { Readable } = require('node:stream');
    
    const myReadable = new Readable({
      read(size) {
        const err = checkSomeErrorCondition();
        if (err) {
          this.destroy(err);
        } else {
          // Do some work.
        }
      },
    }); copy

##### An example counting stream#

The following is a basic example of a `Readable` stream that emits the
numerals from 1 to 1,000,000 in ascending order, and then ends.

    
    
    const { Readable } = require('node:stream');
    
    class Counter extends Readable {
      constructor(opt) {
        super(opt);
        this._max = 1000000;
        this._index = 1;
      }
    
      _read() {
        const i = this._index++;
        if (i > this._max)
          this.push(null);
        else {
          const str = String(i);
          const buf = Buffer.from(str, 'ascii');
          this.push(buf);
        }
      }
    } copy

#### Implementing a duplex stream#

A `Duplex` stream is one that implements both `Readable` and `Writable`, such
as a TCP socket connection.

Because JavaScript does not have support for multiple inheritance, the
`stream.Duplex` class is extended to implement a `Duplex` stream (as opposed
to extending the `stream.Readable` _and_ `stream.Writable` classes).

The `stream.Duplex` class prototypically inherits from `stream.Readable` and
parasitically from `stream.Writable`, but `instanceof` will work properly for
both base classes due to overriding
[`Symbol.hasInstance`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Symbol/hasInstance) on
`stream.Writable`.

Custom `Duplex` streams _must_ call the `new stream.Duplex([options])`
constructor and implement _both_ the `readable._read()` and
`writable._write()` methods.

##### `new stream.Duplex(options)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.4.0 | The `readableHighWaterMark` and `writableHighWaterMark` options are supported now.  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Passed to both `Writable` and `Readable` constructors. Also has the following fields: 
    * `allowHalfOpen` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `false`, then the stream will automatically end the writable side when the readable side ends. **Default:** `true`.
    * `readable` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Sets whether the `Duplex` should be readable. **Default:** `true`.
    * `writable` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Sets whether the `Duplex` should be writable. **Default:** `true`.
    * `readableObjectMode` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Sets `objectMode` for readable side of the stream. Has no effect if `objectMode` is `true`. **Default:** `false`.
    * `writableObjectMode` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Sets `objectMode` for writable side of the stream. Has no effect if `objectMode` is `true`. **Default:** `false`.
    * `readableHighWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets `highWaterMark` for the readable side of the stream. Has no effect if `highWaterMark` is provided.
    * `writableHighWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets `highWaterMark` for the writable side of the stream. Has no effect if `highWaterMark` is provided.

    
    
    const { Duplex } = require('node:stream');
    
    class MyDuplex extends Duplex {
      constructor(options) {
        super(options);
        // ...
      }
    } copy

Or, when using pre-ES6 style constructors:

    
    
    const { Duplex } = require('node:stream');
    const util = require('node:util');
    
    function MyDuplex(options) {
      if (!(this instanceof MyDuplex))
        return new MyDuplex(options);
      Duplex.call(this, options);
    }
    util.inherits(MyDuplex, Duplex); copy

Or, using the simplified constructor approach:

    
    
    const { Duplex } = require('node:stream');
    
    const myDuplex = new Duplex({
      read(size) {
        // ...
      },
      write(chunk, encoding, callback) {
        // ...
      },
    }); copy

When using pipeline:

    
    
    const { Transform, pipeline } = require('node:stream');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    
    pipeline(
      fs.createReadStream('object.json')
        .setEncoding('utf8'),
      new Transform({
        decodeStrings: false, // Accept string input rather than Buffers
        construct(callback) {
          this.data = '';
          callback();
        },
        transform(chunk, encoding, callback) {
          this.data += chunk;
          callback();
        },
        flush(callback) {
          try {
            // Make sure is valid json.
            JSON.parse(this.data);
            this.push(this.data);
            callback();
          } catch (err) {
            callback(err);
          }
        },
      }),
      fs.createWriteStream('valid-object.json'),
      (err) => {
        if (err) {
          console.error('failed', err);
        } else {
          console.log('completed');
        }
      },
    ); copy

##### An example duplex stream#

The following illustrates a simple example of a `Duplex` stream that wraps a
hypothetical lower-level source object to which data can be written, and from
which data can be read, albeit using an API that is not compatible with
Node.js streams. The following illustrates a simple example of a `Duplex`
stream that buffers incoming written data via the `Writable` interface that is
read back out via the `Readable` interface.

    
    
    const { Duplex } = require('node:stream');
    const kSource = Symbol('source');
    
    class MyDuplex extends Duplex {
      constructor(source, options) {
        super(options);
        this[kSource] = source;
      }
    
      _write(chunk, encoding, callback) {
        // The underlying source only deals with strings.
        if (Buffer.isBuffer(chunk))
          chunk = chunk.toString();
        this[kSource].writeSomeData(chunk);
        callback();
      }
    
      _read(size) {
        this[kSource].fetchSomeData(size, (data, encoding) => {
          this.push(Buffer.from(data, encoding));
        });
      }
    } copy

The most important aspect of a `Duplex` stream is that the `Readable` and
`Writable` sides operate independently of one another despite co-existing
within a single object instance.

##### Object mode duplex streams#

For `Duplex` streams, `objectMode` can be set exclusively for either the
`Readable` or `Writable` side using the `readableObjectMode` and
`writableObjectMode` options respectively.

In the following example, for instance, a new `Transform` stream (which is a
type of `Duplex` stream) is created that has an object mode `Writable` side
that accepts JavaScript numbers that are converted to hexadecimal strings on
the `Readable` side.

    
    
    const { Transform } = require('node:stream');
    
    // All Transform streams are also Duplex Streams.
    const myTransform = new Transform({
      writableObjectMode: true,
    
      transform(chunk, encoding, callback) {
        // Coerce the chunk to a number if necessary.
        chunk |= 0;
    
        // Transform the chunk into something else.
        const data = chunk.toString(16);
    
        // Push the data onto the readable queue.
        callback(null, '0'.repeat(data.length % 2) + data);
      },
    });
    
    myTransform.setEncoding('ascii');
    myTransform.on('data', (chunk) => console.log(chunk));
    
    myTransform.write(1);
    // Prints: 01
    myTransform.write(10);
    // Prints: 0a
    myTransform.write(100);
    // Prints: 64 copy

#### Implementing a transform stream#

A `Transform` stream is a `Duplex` stream where the output is computed in some
way from the input. Examples include [zlib](zlib.html) streams or
[crypto](crypto.html) streams that compress, encrypt, or decrypt data.

There is no requirement that the output be the same size as the input, the
same number of chunks, or arrive at the same time. For example, a `Hash`
stream will only ever have a single chunk of output which is provided when the
input is ended. A `zlib` stream will produce output that is either much
smaller or much larger than its input.

The `stream.Transform` class is extended to implement a `Transform` stream.

The `stream.Transform` class prototypically inherits from `stream.Duplex` and
implements its own versions of the `writable._write()` and `readable._read()`
methods. Custom `Transform` implementations _must_ implement the
`transform._transform()` method and _may_ also implement the
`transform._flush()` method.

Care must be taken when using `Transform` streams in that data written to the
stream can cause the `Writable` side of the stream to become paused if the
output on the `Readable` side is not consumed.

##### `new stream.Transform([options])`#

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Passed to both `Writable` and `Readable` constructors. Also has the following fields: 
    * `transform` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Implementation for the `stream._transform()` method.
    * `flush` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Implementation for the `stream._flush()` method.

    
    
    const { Transform } = require('node:stream');
    
    class MyTransform extends Transform {
      constructor(options) {
        super(options);
        // ...
      }
    } copy

Or, when using pre-ES6 style constructors:

    
    
    const { Transform } = require('node:stream');
    const util = require('node:util');
    
    function MyTransform(options) {
      if (!(this instanceof MyTransform))
        return new MyTransform(options);
      Transform.call(this, options);
    }
    util.inherits(MyTransform, Transform); copy

Or, using the simplified constructor approach:

    
    
    const { Transform } = require('node:stream');
    
    const myTransform = new Transform({
      transform(chunk, encoding, callback) {
        // ...
      },
    }); copy

##### Event: `'end'`#

The `'end'` event is from the `stream.Readable` class. The `'end'` event is
emitted after all data has been output, which occurs after the callback in
`transform._flush()` has been called. In the case of an error, `'end'` should
not be emitted.

##### Event: `'finish'`#

The `'finish'` event is from the `stream.Writable` class. The `'finish'` event
is emitted after `stream.end()` is called and all chunks have been processed
by `stream._transform()`. In the case of an error, `'finish'` should not be
emitted.

##### `transform._flush(callback)`#

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A callback function (optionally with an error argument and data) to be called when remaining data has been flushed.

This function MUST NOT be called by application code directly. It should be
implemented by child classes, and called by the internal `Readable` class
methods only.

In some cases, a transform operation may need to emit an additional bit of
data at the end of the stream. For example, a `zlib` compression stream will
store an amount of internal state used to optimally compress the output. When
the stream ends, however, that additional data needs to be flushed so that the
compressed data will be complete.

Custom `Transform` implementations _may_ implement the `transform._flush()`
method. This will be called when there is no more written data to be consumed,
but before the `'end'` event is emitted signaling the end of the `Readable`
stream.

Within the `transform._flush()` implementation, the `transform.push()` method
may be called zero or more times, as appropriate. The `callback` function must
be called when the flush operation is complete.

The `transform._flush()` method is prefixed with an underscore because it is
internal to the class that defines it, and should never be called directly by
user programs.

##### `transform._transform(chunk, encoding, callback)`#

  * `chunk` <Buffer> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The `Buffer` to be transformed, converted from the `string` passed to `stream.write()`. If the stream's `decodeStrings` option is `false` or the stream is operating in object mode, the chunk will not be converted & will be whatever was passed to `stream.write()`.
  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If the chunk is a string, then this is the encoding type. If chunk is a buffer, then this is the special value `'buffer'`. Ignore it in that case.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A callback function (optionally with an error argument and data) to be called after the supplied `chunk` has been processed.

This function MUST NOT be called by application code directly. It should be
implemented by child classes, and called by the internal `Readable` class
methods only.

All `Transform` stream implementations must provide a `_transform()` method to
accept input and produce output. The `transform._transform()` implementation
handles the bytes being written, computes an output, then passes that output
off to the readable portion using the `transform.push()` method.

The `transform.push()` method may be called zero or more times to generate
output from a single input chunk, depending on how much is to be output as a
result of the chunk.

It is possible that no output is generated from any given chunk of input data.

The `callback` function must be called only when the current chunk is
completely consumed. The first argument passed to the `callback` must be an
`Error` object if an error occurred while processing the input or `null`
otherwise. If a second argument is passed to the `callback`, it will be
forwarded on to the `transform.push()` method, but only if the first argument
is falsy. In other words, the following are equivalent:

    
    
    transform.prototype._transform = function(data, encoding, callback) {
      this.push(data);
      callback();
    };
    
    transform.prototype._transform = function(data, encoding, callback) {
      callback(null, data);
    }; copy

The `transform._transform()` method is prefixed with an underscore because it
is internal to the class that defines it, and should never be called directly
by user programs.

`transform._transform()` is never called in parallel; streams implement a
queue mechanism, and to receive the next chunk, `callback` must be called,
either synchronously or asynchronously.

##### Class: `stream.PassThrough`#

The `stream.PassThrough` class is a trivial implementation of a `Transform`
stream that simply passes the input bytes across to the output. Its purpose is
primarily for examples and testing, but there are some use cases where
`stream.PassThrough` is useful as a building block for novel sorts of streams.

### Additional notes#

#### Streams compatibility with async generators and async iterators#

With the support of async generators and iterators in JavaScript, async
generators are effectively a first-class language-level stream construct at
this point.

Some common interop cases of using Node.js streams with async generators and
async iterators are provided below.

##### Consuming readable streams with async iterators#

    
    
    (async function() {
      for await (const chunk of readable) {
        console.log(chunk);
      }
    })(); copy

Async iterators register a permanent error handler on the stream to prevent
any unhandled post-destroy errors.

##### Creating readable streams with async generators#

A Node.js readable stream can be created from an asynchronous generator using
the `Readable.from()` utility method:

    
    
    const { Readable } = require('node:stream');
    
    const ac = new AbortController();
    const signal = ac.signal;
    
    async function * generate() {
      yield 'a';
      await someLongRunningFn({ signal });
      yield 'b';
      yield 'c';
    }
    
    const readable = Readable.from(generate());
    readable.on('close', () => {
      ac.abort();
    });
    
    readable.on('data', (chunk) => {
      console.log(chunk);
    }); copy

##### Piping to writable streams from async iterators#

When writing to a writable stream from an async iterator, ensure correct
handling of backpressure and errors. `stream.pipeline()` abstracts away the
handling of backpressure and backpressure-related errors:

    
    
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const { pipeline } = require('node:stream');
    const { pipeline: pipelinePromise } = require('node:stream/promises');
    
    const writable = fs.createWriteStream('./file');
    
    const ac = new AbortController();
    const signal = ac.signal;
    
    const iterator = createIterator({ signal });
    
    // Callback Pattern
    pipeline(iterator, writable, (err, value) => {
      if (err) {
        console.error(err);
      } else {
        console.log(value, 'value returned');
      }
    }).on('close', () => {
      ac.abort();
    });
    
    // Promise Pattern
    pipelinePromise(iterator, writable)
      .then((value) => {
        console.log(value, 'value returned');
      })
      .catch((err) => {
        console.error(err);
        ac.abort();
      }); copy

#### Compatibility with older Node.js versions#

Prior to Node.js 0.10, the `Readable` stream interface was simpler, but also
less powerful and less useful.

  * Rather than waiting for calls to the `stream.read()` method, `'data'` events would begin emitting immediately. Applications that would need to perform some amount of work to decide how to handle data were required to store read data into buffers so the data would not be lost.
  * The `stream.pause()` method was advisory, rather than guaranteed. This meant that it was still necessary to be prepared to receive `'data'` events _even when the stream was in a paused state_.

In Node.js 0.10, the `Readable` class was added. For backward compatibility
with older Node.js programs, `Readable` streams switch into "flowing mode"
when a `'data'` event handler is added, or when the `stream.resume()` method
is called. The effect is that, even when not using the new `stream.read()`
method and `'readable'` event, it is no longer necessary to worry about losing
`'data'` chunks.

While most applications will continue to function normally, this introduces an
edge case in the following conditions:

  * No `'data'` event listener is added.
  * The `stream.resume()` method is never called.
  * The stream is not piped to any writable destination.

For example, consider the following code:

    
    
    // WARNING!  BROKEN!
    net.createServer((socket) => {
    
      // We add an 'end' listener, but never consume the data.
      socket.on('end', () => {
        // It will never get here.
        socket.end('The message was received but was not processed.\n');
      });
    
    }).listen(1337); copy

Prior to Node.js 0.10, the incoming message data would be simply discarded.
However, in Node.js 0.10 and beyond, the socket remains paused forever.

The workaround in this situation is to call the `stream.resume()` method to
begin the flow of data:

    
    
    // Workaround.
    net.createServer((socket) => {
      socket.on('end', () => {
        socket.end('The message was received but was not processed.\n');
      });
    
      // Start the flow of data, discarding it.
      socket.resume();
    }).listen(1337); copy

In addition to new `Readable` streams switching into flowing mode, pre-0.10
style streams can be wrapped in a `Readable` class using the `readable.wrap()`
method.

#### `readable.read(0)`#

There are some cases where it is necessary to trigger a refresh of the
underlying readable stream mechanisms, without actually consuming any data. In
such cases, it is possible to call `readable.read(0)`, which will always
return `null`.

If the internal read buffer is below the `highWaterMark`, and the stream is
not currently reading, then calling `stream.read(0)` will trigger a low-level
`stream._read()` call.

While most applications will almost never need to do this, there are
situations within Node.js where this is done, particularly in the `Readable`
stream class internals.

#### `readable.push('')`#

Use of `readable.push('')` is not recommended.

Pushing a zero-byte [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type), <Buffer>,
[<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) or
[<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) to a stream that is
not in object mode has an interesting side effect. Because it _is_ a call to
`readable.push()`, the call will end the reading process. However, because the
argument is an empty string, no data is added to the readable buffer so there
is nothing for a user to consume.

#### `highWaterMark` discrepancy after calling `readable.setEncoding()`#

The use of `readable.setEncoding()` will change the behavior of how the
`highWaterMark` operates in non-object mode.

Typically, the size of the current buffer is measured against the
`highWaterMark` in _bytes_. However, after `setEncoding()` is called, the
comparison function will begin to measure the buffer's size in _characters_.

This is not a problem in common cases with `latin1` or `ascii`. But it is
advised to be mindful about this behavior when working with strings that could
contain multi-byte characters.

## String decoder#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/string_decoder.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/string_decoder.js)

The `node:string_decoder` module provides an API for decoding `Buffer` objects
into strings in a manner that preserves encoded multi-byte UTF-8 and UTF-16
characters. It can be accessed using:

    
    
    import { StringDecoder } from 'node:string_decoder';const { StringDecoder } = require('node:string_decoder');copy

The following example shows the basic use of the `StringDecoder` class.

    
    
    import { StringDecoder } from 'node:string_decoder';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    const decoder = new StringDecoder('utf8');
    
    const cent = Buffer.from([0xC2, 0xA2]);
    console.log(decoder.write(cent)); // Prints: ¢
    
    const euro = Buffer.from([0xE2, 0x82, 0xAC]);
    console.log(decoder.write(euro)); // Prints: €const { StringDecoder } = require('node:string_decoder');
    const decoder = new StringDecoder('utf8');
    
    const cent = Buffer.from([0xC2, 0xA2]);
    console.log(decoder.write(cent)); // Prints: ¢
    
    const euro = Buffer.from([0xE2, 0x82, 0xAC]);
    console.log(decoder.write(euro)); // Prints: €copy

When a `Buffer` instance is written to the `StringDecoder` instance, an
internal buffer is used to ensure that the decoded string does not contain any
incomplete multibyte characters. These are held in the buffer until the next
call to `stringDecoder.write()` or until `stringDecoder.end()` is called.

In the following example, the three UTF-8 encoded bytes of the European Euro
symbol (`€`) are written over three separate operations:

    
    
    import { StringDecoder } from 'node:string_decoder';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    const decoder = new StringDecoder('utf8');
    
    decoder.write(Buffer.from([0xE2]));
    decoder.write(Buffer.from([0x82]));
    console.log(decoder.end(Buffer.from([0xAC]))); // Prints: €const { StringDecoder } = require('node:string_decoder');
    const decoder = new StringDecoder('utf8');
    
    decoder.write(Buffer.from([0xE2]));
    decoder.write(Buffer.from([0x82]));
    console.log(decoder.end(Buffer.from([0xAC]))); // Prints: €copy

### Class: `StringDecoder`#

#### `new StringDecoder([encoding])`#

Added in: v0.1.99

  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The character encoding the `StringDecoder` will use. **Default:** `'utf8'`.

Creates a new `StringDecoder` instance.

#### `stringDecoder.end([buffer])`#

Added in: v0.9.3

  * `buffer` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) The bytes to decode.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns any remaining input stored in the internal buffer as a string. Bytes
representing incomplete UTF-8 and UTF-16 characters will be replaced with
substitution characters appropriate for the character encoding.

If the `buffer` argument is provided, one final call to
`stringDecoder.write()` is performed before returning the remaining input.
After `end()` is called, the `stringDecoder` object can be reused for new
input.

#### `stringDecoder.write(buffer)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | Each invalid character is now replaced by a single replacement character instead of one for each individual byte.  
v0.1.99 | Added in: v0.1.99  
  
  * `buffer` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) The bytes to decode.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns a decoded string, ensuring that any incomplete multibyte characters at
the end of the `Buffer`, or `TypedArray`, or `DataView` are omitted from the
returned string and stored in an internal buffer for the next call to
`stringDecoder.write()` or `stringDecoder.end()`.

## Test runner#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0 | The test runner is now stable.  
v18.0.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.0.0, v16.17.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/test.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/test.js)

The `node:test` module facilitates the creation of JavaScript tests. To access
it:

    
    
    import test from 'node:test';const test = require('node:test');copy

This module is only available under the `node:` scheme.

Tests created via the `test` module consist of a single function that is
processed in one of three ways:

  1. A synchronous function that is considered failing if it throws an exception, and is considered passing otherwise.
  2. A function that returns a `Promise` that is considered failing if the `Promise` rejects, and is considered passing if the `Promise` fulfills.
  3. A function that receives a callback function. If the callback receives any truthy value as its first argument, the test is considered failing. If a falsy value is passed as the first argument to the callback, the test is considered passing. If the test function receives a callback function and also returns a `Promise`, the test will fail.

The following example illustrates how tests are written using the `test`
module.

    
    
    test('synchronous passing test', (t) => {
      // This test passes because it does not throw an exception.
      assert.strictEqual(1, 1);
    });
    
    test('synchronous failing test', (t) => {
      // This test fails because it throws an exception.
      assert.strictEqual(1, 2);
    });
    
    test('asynchronous passing test', async (t) => {
      // This test passes because the Promise returned by the async
      // function is settled and not rejected.
      assert.strictEqual(1, 1);
    });
    
    test('asynchronous failing test', async (t) => {
      // This test fails because the Promise returned by the async
      // function is rejected.
      assert.strictEqual(1, 2);
    });
    
    test('failing test using Promises', (t) => {
      // Promises can be used directly as well.
      return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
        setImmediate(() => {
          reject(new Error('this will cause the test to fail'));
        });
      });
    });
    
    test('callback passing test', (t, done) => {
      // done() is the callback function. When the setImmediate() runs, it invokes
      // done() with no arguments.
      setImmediate(done);
    });
    
    test('callback failing test', (t, done) => {
      // When the setImmediate() runs, done() is invoked with an Error object and
      // the test fails.
      setImmediate(() => {
        done(new Error('callback failure'));
      });
    }); copy

If any tests fail, the process exit code is set to `1`.

### Subtests#

The test context's `test()` method allows subtests to be created. It allows
you to structure your tests in a hierarchical manner, where you can create
nested tests within a larger test. This method behaves identically to the top
level `test()` function. The following example demonstrates the creation of a
top level test with two subtests.

    
    
    test('top level test', async (t) => {
      await t.test('subtest 1', (t) => {
        assert.strictEqual(1, 1);
      });
    
      await t.test('subtest 2', (t) => {
        assert.strictEqual(2, 2);
      });
    }); copy

> **Note:** `beforeEach` and `afterEach` hooks are triggered between each
> subtest execution.

In this example, `await` is used to ensure that both subtests have completed.
This is necessary because tests do not wait for their subtests to complete,
unlike tests created within suites. Any subtests that are still outstanding
when their parent finishes are cancelled and treated as failures. Any subtest
failures cause the parent test to fail.

### Skipping tests#

Individual tests can be skipped by passing the `skip` option to the test, or
by calling the test context's `skip()` method as shown in the following
example.

    
    
    // The skip option is used, but no message is provided.
    test('skip option', { skip: true }, (t) => {
      // This code is never executed.
    });
    
    // The skip option is used, and a message is provided.
    test('skip option with message', { skip: 'this is skipped' }, (t) => {
      // This code is never executed.
    });
    
    test('skip() method', (t) => {
      // Make sure to return here as well if the test contains additional logic.
      t.skip();
    });
    
    test('skip() method with message', (t) => {
      // Make sure to return here as well if the test contains additional logic.
      t.skip('this is skipped');
    }); copy

### TODO tests#

Individual tests can be marked as flaky or incomplete by passing the `todo`
option to the test, or by calling the test context's `todo()` method, as shown
in the following example. These tests represent a pending implementation or
bug that needs to be fixed. TODO tests are executed, but are not treated as
test failures, and therefore do not affect the process exit code. If a test is
marked as both TODO and skipped, the TODO option is ignored.

    
    
    // The todo option is used, but no message is provided.
    test('todo option', { todo: true }, (t) => {
      // This code is executed, but not treated as a failure.
      throw new Error('this does not fail the test');
    });
    
    // The todo option is used, and a message is provided.
    test('todo option with message', { todo: 'this is a todo test' }, (t) => {
      // This code is executed.
    });
    
    test('todo() method', (t) => {
      t.todo();
    });
    
    test('todo() method with message', (t) => {
      t.todo('this is a todo test and is not treated as a failure');
      throw new Error('this does not fail the test');
    }); copy

### `describe()` and `it()` aliases#

Suites and tests can also be written using the `describe()` and `it()`
functions. `describe()` is an alias for `suite()`, and `it()` is an alias for
`test()`.

    
    
    describe('A thing', () => {
      it('should work', () => {
        assert.strictEqual(1, 1);
      });
    
      it('should be ok', () => {
        assert.strictEqual(2, 2);
      });
    
      describe('a nested thing', () => {
        it('should work', () => {
          assert.strictEqual(3, 3);
        });
      });
    }); copy

`describe()` and `it()` are imported from the `node:test` module.

    
    
    import { describe, it } from 'node:test';const { describe, it } = require('node:test');copy

### `only` tests#

If Node.js is started with the `--test-only` command-line option, or test
isolation is disabled, it is possible to skip all tests except for a selected
subset by passing the `only` option to the tests that should run. When a test
with the `only` option is set, all subtests are also run. If a suite has the
`only` option set, all tests within the suite are run, unless it has
descendants with the `only` option set, in which case only those tests are
run.

When using subtests within a `test()`/`it()`, it is required to mark all
ancestor tests with the `only` option to run only a selected subset of tests.

The test context's `runOnly()` method can be used to implement the same
behavior at the subtest level. Tests that are not executed are omitted from
the test runner output.

    
    
    // Assume Node.js is run with the --test-only command-line option.
    // The suite's 'only' option is set, so these tests are run.
    test('this test is run', { only: true }, async (t) => {
      // Within this test, all subtests are run by default.
      await t.test('running subtest');
    
      // The test context can be updated to run subtests with the 'only' option.
      t.runOnly(true);
      await t.test('this subtest is now skipped');
      await t.test('this subtest is run', { only: true });
    
      // Switch the context back to execute all tests.
      t.runOnly(false);
      await t.test('this subtest is now run');
    
      // Explicitly do not run these tests.
      await t.test('skipped subtest 3', { only: false });
      await t.test('skipped subtest 4', { skip: true });
    });
    
    // The 'only' option is not set, so this test is skipped.
    test('this test is not run', () => {
      // This code is not run.
      throw new Error('fail');
    });
    
    describe('a suite', () => {
      // The 'only' option is set, so this test is run.
      it('this test is run', { only: true }, () => {
        // This code is run.
      });
    
      it('this test is not run', () => {
        // This code is not run.
        throw new Error('fail');
      });
    });
    
    describe.only('a suite', () => {
      // The 'only' option is set, so this test is run.
      it('this test is run', () => {
        // This code is run.
      });
    
      it('this test is run', () => {
        // This code is run.
      });
    }); copy

### Filtering tests by name#

The `--test-name-pattern` command-line option can be used to only run tests
whose name matches the provided pattern, and the `--test-skip-pattern` option
can be used to skip tests whose name matches the provided pattern. Test name
patterns are interpreted as JavaScript regular expressions. The `--test-name-
pattern` and `--test-skip-pattern` options can be specified multiple times in
order to run nested tests. For each test that is executed, any corresponding
test hooks, such as `beforeEach()`, are also run. Tests that are not executed
are omitted from the test runner output.

Given the following test file, starting Node.js with the `--test-name-
pattern="test [1-3]"` option would cause the test runner to execute `test 1`,
`test 2`, and `test 3`. If `test 1` did not match the test name pattern, then
its subtests would not execute, despite matching the pattern. The same set of
tests could also be executed by passing `--test-name-pattern` multiple times
(e.g. `--test-name-pattern="test 1"`, `--test-name-pattern="test 2"`, etc.).

    
    
    test('test 1', async (t) => {
      await t.test('test 2');
      await t.test('test 3');
    });
    
    test('Test 4', async (t) => {
      await t.test('Test 5');
      await t.test('test 6');
    }); copy

Test name patterns can also be specified using regular expression literals.
This allows regular expression flags to be used. In the previous example,
starting Node.js with `--test-name-pattern="/test [4-5]/i"` (or `--test-skip-
pattern="/test [4-5]/i"`) would match `Test 4` and `Test 5` because the
pattern is case-insensitive.

To match a single test with a pattern, you can prefix it with all its ancestor
test names separated by space, to ensure it is unique. For example, given the
following test file:

    
    
    describe('test 1', (t) => {
      it('some test');
    });
    
    describe('test 2', (t) => {
      it('some test');
    }); copy

Starting Node.js with `--test-name-pattern="test 1 some test"` would match
only `some test` in `test 1`.

Test name patterns do not change the set of files that the test runner
executes.

If both `--test-name-pattern` and `--test-skip-pattern` are supplied, tests
must satisfy **both** requirements in order to be executed.

### Extraneous asynchronous activity#

Once a test function finishes executing, the results are reported as quickly
as possible while maintaining the order of the tests. However, it is possible
for the test function to generate asynchronous activity that outlives the test
itself. The test runner handles this type of activity, but does not delay the
reporting of test results in order to accommodate it.

In the following example, a test completes with two `setImmediate()`
operations still outstanding. The first `setImmediate()` attempts to create a
new subtest. Because the parent test has already finished and output its
results, the new subtest is immediately marked as failed, and reported later
to the <TestsStream>.

The second `setImmediate()` creates an `uncaughtException` event.
`uncaughtException` and `unhandledRejection` events originating from a
completed test are marked as failed by the `test` module and reported as
diagnostic warnings at the top level by the <TestsStream>.

    
    
    test('a test that creates asynchronous activity', (t) => {
      setImmediate(() => {
        t.test('subtest that is created too late', (t) => {
          throw new Error('error1');
        });
      });
    
      setImmediate(() => {
        throw new Error('error2');
      });
    
      // The test finishes after this line.
    }); copy

### Watch mode#

Added in: v19.2.0, v18.13.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

The Node.js test runner supports running in watch mode by passing the
`--watch` flag:

    
    
    node --test --watch copy

In watch mode, the test runner will watch for changes to test files and their
dependencies. When a change is detected, the test runner will rerun the tests
affected by the change. The test runner will continue to run until the process
is terminated.

### Running tests from the command line#

The Node.js test runner can be invoked from the command line by passing the
`--test` flag:

    
    
    node --test copy

By default, Node.js will run all files matching these patterns:

  * `**/*.test.{cjs,mjs,js}`
  * `**/*-test.{cjs,mjs,js}`
  * `**/*_test.{cjs,mjs,js}`
  * `**/test-*.{cjs,mjs,js}`
  * `**/test.{cjs,mjs,js}`
  * `**/test/**/*.{cjs,mjs,js}`

Unless `--no-experimental-strip-types` is supplied, the following additional
patterns are also matched:

  * `**/test/**/*-test.{cts,mts,ts}`
  * `**/test/**/*.test.{cts,mts,ts}`
  * `**/test/**/*_test.{cts,mts,ts}`

Alternatively, one or more glob patterns can be provided as the final
argument(s) to the Node.js command, as shown below. Glob patterns follow the
behavior of [`glob(7)`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/glob.7.html).
The glob patterns should be enclosed in double quotes on the command line to
prevent shell expansion, which can reduce portability across systems.

    
    
    node --test "**/*.test.js" "**/*.spec.js" copy

Matching files are executed as test files. More information on the test file
execution can be found in the test runner execution model section.

#### Test runner execution model#

When process-level test isolation is enabled, each matching test file is
executed in a separate child process. The maximum number of child processes
running at any time is controlled by the `--test-concurrency` flag. If the
child process finishes with an exit code of 0, the test is considered passing.
Otherwise, the test is considered to be a failure. Test files must be
executable by Node.js, but are not required to use the `node:test` module
internally.

Each test file is executed as if it was a regular script. That is, if the test
file itself uses `node:test` to define tests, all of those tests will be
executed within a single application thread, regardless of the value of the
`concurrency` option of `test()`.

When process-level test isolation is disabled, each matching test file is
imported into the test runner process. Once all test files have been loaded,
the top level tests are executed with a concurrency of one. Because the test
files are all run within the same context, it is possible for tests to
interact with each other in ways that are not possible when isolation is
enabled. For example, if a test relies on global state, it is possible for
that state to be modified by a test originating from another file.

### Collecting code coverage#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

When Node.js is started with the `--experimental-test-coverage` command-line
flag, code coverage is collected and statistics are reported once all tests
have completed. If the `NODE_V8_COVERAGE` environment variable is used to
specify a code coverage directory, the generated V8 coverage files are written
to that directory. Node.js core modules and files within `node_modules/`
directories are, by default, not included in the coverage report. However,
they can be explicitly included via the `--test-coverage-include` flag. By
default all the matching test files are excluded from the coverage report.
Exclusions can be overridden by using the `--test-coverage-exclude` flag. If
coverage is enabled, the coverage report is sent to any test reporters via the
`'test:coverage'` event.

Coverage can be disabled on a series of lines using the following comment
syntax:

    
    
    /* node:coverage disable */
    if (anAlwaysFalseCondition) {
      // Code in this branch will never be executed, but the lines are ignored for
      // coverage purposes. All lines following the 'disable' comment are ignored
      // until a corresponding 'enable' comment is encountered.
      console.log('this is never executed');
    }
    /* node:coverage enable */ copy

Coverage can also be disabled for a specified number of lines. After the
specified number of lines, coverage will be automatically reenabled. If the
number of lines is not explicitly provided, a single line is ignored.

    
    
    /* node:coverage ignore next */
    if (anAlwaysFalseCondition) { console.log('this is never executed'); }
    
    /* node:coverage ignore next 3 */
    if (anAlwaysFalseCondition) {
      console.log('this is never executed');
    } copy

#### Coverage reporters#

The tap and spec reporters will print a summary of the coverage statistics.
There is also an lcov reporter that will generate an lcov file which can be
used as an in depth coverage report.

    
    
    node --test --experimental-test-coverage --test-reporter=lcov --test-reporter-destination=lcov.info copy

  * No test results are reported by this reporter.
  * This reporter should ideally be used alongside another reporter.

### Mocking#

The `node:test` module supports mocking during testing via a top-level `mock`
object. The following example creates a spy on a function that adds two
numbers together. The spy is then used to assert that the function was called
as expected.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { mock, test } from 'node:test';
    
    test('spies on a function', () => {
      const sum = mock.fn((a, b) => {
        return a + b;
      });
    
      assert.strictEqual(sum.mock.callCount(), 0);
      assert.strictEqual(sum(3, 4), 7);
      assert.strictEqual(sum.mock.callCount(), 1);
    
      const call = sum.mock.calls[0];
      assert.deepStrictEqual(call.arguments, [3, 4]);
      assert.strictEqual(call.result, 7);
      assert.strictEqual(call.error, undefined);
    
      // Reset the globally tracked mocks.
      mock.reset();
    });'use strict';
    const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { mock, test } = require('node:test');
    
    test('spies on a function', () => {
      const sum = mock.fn((a, b) => {
        return a + b;
      });
    
      assert.strictEqual(sum.mock.callCount(), 0);
      assert.strictEqual(sum(3, 4), 7);
      assert.strictEqual(sum.mock.callCount(), 1);
    
      const call = sum.mock.calls[0];
      assert.deepStrictEqual(call.arguments, [3, 4]);
      assert.strictEqual(call.result, 7);
      assert.strictEqual(call.error, undefined);
    
      // Reset the globally tracked mocks.
      mock.reset();
    });copy

The same mocking functionality is also exposed on the `TestContext` object of
each test. The following example creates a spy on an object method using the
API exposed on the `TestContext`. The benefit of mocking via the test context
is that the test runner will automatically restore all mocked functionality
once the test finishes.

    
    
    test('spies on an object method', (t) => {
      const number = {
        value: 5,
        add(a) {
          return this.value + a;
        },
      };
    
      t.mock.method(number, 'add');
      assert.strictEqual(number.add.mock.callCount(), 0);
      assert.strictEqual(number.add(3), 8);
      assert.strictEqual(number.add.mock.callCount(), 1);
    
      const call = number.add.mock.calls[0];
    
      assert.deepStrictEqual(call.arguments, [3]);
      assert.strictEqual(call.result, 8);
      assert.strictEqual(call.target, undefined);
      assert.strictEqual(call.this, number);
    }); copy

#### Timers#

Mocking timers is a technique commonly used in software testing to simulate
and control the behavior of timers, such as `setInterval` and `setTimeout`,
without actually waiting for the specified time intervals.

Refer to the `MockTimers` class for a full list of methods and features.

This allows developers to write more reliable and predictable tests for time-
dependent functionality.

The example below shows how to mock `setTimeout`. Using `.enable({ apis:
['setTimeout'] });` it will mock the `setTimeout` functions in the
[node:timers](./timers.html) and [node:timers/promises](./timers.html#timers-
promises-api) modules, as well as from the Node.js global context.

**Note:** Destructuring functions such as `import { setTimeout } from
'node:timers'` is currently not supported by this API.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { mock, test } from 'node:test';
    
    test('mocks setTimeout to be executed synchronously without having to actually wait for it', () => {
      const fn = mock.fn();
    
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout'] });
      setTimeout(fn, 9999);
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 0);
    
      // Advance in time
      mock.timers.tick(9999);
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 1);
    
      // Reset the globally tracked mocks.
      mock.timers.reset();
    
      // If you call reset mock instance, it will also reset timers instance
      mock.reset();
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { mock, test } = require('node:test');
    
    test('mocks setTimeout to be executed synchronously without having to actually wait for it', () => {
      const fn = mock.fn();
    
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout'] });
      setTimeout(fn, 9999);
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 0);
    
      // Advance in time
      mock.timers.tick(9999);
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 1);
    
      // Reset the globally tracked mocks.
      mock.timers.reset();
    
      // If you call reset mock instance, it will also reset timers instance
      mock.reset();
    });copy

The same mocking functionality is also exposed in the mock property on the
`TestContext` object of each test. The benefit of mocking via the test context
is that the test runner will automatically restore all mocked timers
functionality once the test finishes.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { test } from 'node:test';
    
    test('mocks setTimeout to be executed synchronously without having to actually wait for it', (context) => {
      const fn = context.mock.fn();
    
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout'] });
      setTimeout(fn, 9999);
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 0);
    
      // Advance in time
      context.mock.timers.tick(9999);
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 1);
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { test } = require('node:test');
    
    test('mocks setTimeout to be executed synchronously without having to actually wait for it', (context) => {
      const fn = context.mock.fn();
    
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout'] });
      setTimeout(fn, 9999);
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 0);
    
      // Advance in time
      context.mock.timers.tick(9999);
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 1);
    });copy

#### Dates#

The mock timers API also allows the mocking of the `Date` object. This is a
useful feature for testing time-dependent functionality, or to simulate
internal calendar functions such as `Date.now()`.

The dates implementation is also part of the `MockTimers` class. Refer to it
for a full list of methods and features.

**Note:** Dates and timers are dependent when mocked together. This means that
if you have both the `Date` and `setTimeout` mocked, advancing the time will
also advance the mocked date as they simulate a single internal clock.

The example below show how to mock the `Date` object and obtain the current
`Date.now()` value.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { test } from 'node:test';
    
    test('mocks the Date object', (context) => {
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['Date'] });
      // If not specified, the initial date will be based on 0 in the UNIX epoch
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 0);
    
      // Advance in time will also advance the date
      context.mock.timers.tick(9999);
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 9999);
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { test } = require('node:test');
    
    test('mocks the Date object', (context) => {
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['Date'] });
      // If not specified, the initial date will be based on 0 in the UNIX epoch
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 0);
    
      // Advance in time will also advance the date
      context.mock.timers.tick(9999);
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 9999);
    });copy

If there is no initial epoch set, the initial date will be based on 0 in the
Unix epoch. This is January 1st, 1970, 00:00:00 UTC. You can set an initial
date by passing a `now` property to the `.enable()` method. This value will be
used as the initial date for the mocked `Date` object. It can either be a
positive integer, or another Date object.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { test } from 'node:test';
    
    test('mocks the Date object with initial time', (context) => {
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['Date'], now: 100 });
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 100);
    
      // Advance in time will also advance the date
      context.mock.timers.tick(200);
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 300);
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { test } = require('node:test');
    
    test('mocks the Date object with initial time', (context) => {
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['Date'], now: 100 });
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 100);
    
      // Advance in time will also advance the date
      context.mock.timers.tick(200);
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 300);
    });copy

You can use the `.setTime()` method to manually move the mocked date to
another time. This method only accepts a positive integer.

**Note:** This method will execute any mocked timers that are in the past from
the new time.

In the below example we are setting a new time for the mocked date.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { test } from 'node:test';
    
    test('sets the time of a date object', (context) => {
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['Date'], now: 100 });
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 100);
    
      // Advance in time will also advance the date
      context.mock.timers.setTime(1000);
      context.mock.timers.tick(200);
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 1200);
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { test } = require('node:test');
    
    test('sets the time of a date object', (context) => {
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['Date'], now: 100 });
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 100);
    
      // Advance in time will also advance the date
      context.mock.timers.setTime(1000);
      context.mock.timers.tick(200);
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 1200);
    });copy

If you have any timer that's set to run in the past, it will be executed as if
the `.tick()` method has been called. This is useful if you want to test time-
dependent functionality that's already in the past.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { test } from 'node:test';
    
    test('runs timers as setTime passes ticks', (context) => {
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout', 'Date'] });
      const fn = context.mock.fn();
      setTimeout(fn, 1000);
    
      context.mock.timers.setTime(800);
      // Timer is not executed as the time is not yet reached
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 0);
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 800);
    
      context.mock.timers.setTime(1200);
      // Timer is executed as the time is now reached
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 1);
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 1200);
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { test } = require('node:test');
    
    test('runs timers as setTime passes ticks', (context) => {
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout', 'Date'] });
      const fn = context.mock.fn();
      setTimeout(fn, 1000);
    
      context.mock.timers.setTime(800);
      // Timer is not executed as the time is not yet reached
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 0);
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 800);
    
      context.mock.timers.setTime(1200);
      // Timer is executed as the time is now reached
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 1);
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 1200);
    });copy

Using `.runAll()` will execute all timers that are currently in the queue.
This will also advance the mocked date to the time of the last timer that was
executed as if the time has passed.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { test } from 'node:test';
    
    test('runs timers as setTime passes ticks', (context) => {
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout', 'Date'] });
      const fn = context.mock.fn();
      setTimeout(fn, 1000);
      setTimeout(fn, 2000);
      setTimeout(fn, 3000);
    
      context.mock.timers.runAll();
      // All timers are executed as the time is now reached
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 3);
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 3000);
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { test } = require('node:test');
    
    test('runs timers as setTime passes ticks', (context) => {
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout', 'Date'] });
      const fn = context.mock.fn();
      setTimeout(fn, 1000);
      setTimeout(fn, 2000);
      setTimeout(fn, 3000);
    
      context.mock.timers.runAll();
      // All timers are executed as the time is now reached
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 3);
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 3000);
    });copy

### Snapshot testing#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.4.0 | Snapsnot testing is no longer experimental.  
v22.3.0 | Added in: v22.3.0  
  
Snapshot tests allow arbitrary values to be serialized into string values and
compared against a set of known good values. The known good values are known
as snapshots, and are stored in a snapshot file. Snapshot files are managed by
the test runner, but are designed to be human readable to aid in debugging.
Best practice is for snapshot files to be checked into source control along
with your test files.

Snapshot files are generated by starting Node.js with the `--test-update-
snapshots` command-line flag. A separate snapshot file is generated for each
test file. By default, the snapshot file has the same name as the test file
with a `.snapshot` file extension. This behavior can be configured using the
`snapshot.setResolveSnapshotPath()` function. Each snapshot assertion
corresponds to an export in the snapshot file.

An example snapshot test is shown below. The first time this test is executed,
it will fail because the corresponding snapshot file does not exist.

    
    
    // test.js
    suite('suite of snapshot tests', () => {
      test('snapshot test', (t) => {
        t.assert.snapshot({ value1: 1, value2: 2 });
        t.assert.snapshot(5);
      });
    }); copy

Generate the snapshot file by running the test file with `--test-update-
snapshots`. The test should pass, and a file named `test.js.snapshot` is
created in the same directory as the test file. The contents of the snapshot
file are shown below. Each snapshot is identified by the full name of test and
a counter to differentiate between snapshots in the same test.

    
    
    exports[`suite of snapshot tests > snapshot test 1`] = `
    {
      "value1": 1,
      "value2": 2
    }
    `;
    
    exports[`suite of snapshot tests > snapshot test 2`] = `
    5
    `; copy

Once the snapshot file is created, run the tests again without the `--test-
update-snapshots` flag. The tests should pass now.

### Test reporters#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.9.0, v18.17.0 | Reporters are now exposed at `node:test/reporters`.  
v19.6.0, v18.15.0 | Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0  
  
The `node:test` module supports passing `--test-reporter` flags for the test
runner to use a specific reporter.

The following built-reporters are supported:

  * `spec` The `spec` reporter outputs the test results in a human-readable format. This is the default reporter.

  * `tap` The `tap` reporter outputs the test results in the [TAP](https://testanything.org/) format.

  * `dot` The `dot` reporter outputs the test results in a compact format, where each passing test is represented by a `.`, and each failing test is represented by a `X`.

  * `junit` The junit reporter outputs test results in a jUnit XML format

  * `lcov` The `lcov` reporter outputs test coverage when used with the `--experimental-test-coverage` flag.

The exact output of these reporters is subject to change between versions of
Node.js, and should not be relied on programmatically. If programmatic access
to the test runner's output is required, use the events emitted by the
<TestsStream>.

The reporters are available via the `node:test/reporters` module:

    
    
    import { tap, spec, dot, junit, lcov } from 'node:test/reporters';const { tap, spec, dot, junit, lcov } = require('node:test/reporters');copy

#### Custom reporters#

`--test-reporter` can be used to specify a path to custom reporter. A custom
reporter is a module that exports a value accepted by stream.compose.
Reporters should transform events emitted by a <TestsStream>

Example of a custom reporter using <stream.Transform>:

    
    
    import { Transform } from 'node:stream';
    
    const customReporter = new Transform({
      writableObjectMode: true,
      transform(event, encoding, callback) {
        switch (event.type) {
          case 'test:dequeue':
            callback(null, `test ${event.data.name} dequeued`);
            break;
          case 'test:enqueue':
            callback(null, `test ${event.data.name} enqueued`);
            break;
          case 'test:watch:drained':
            callback(null, 'test watch queue drained');
            break;
          case 'test:start':
            callback(null, `test ${event.data.name} started`);
            break;
          case 'test:pass':
            callback(null, `test ${event.data.name} passed`);
            break;
          case 'test:fail':
            callback(null, `test ${event.data.name} failed`);
            break;
          case 'test:plan':
            callback(null, 'test plan');
            break;
          case 'test:diagnostic':
          case 'test:stderr':
          case 'test:stdout':
            callback(null, event.data.message);
            break;
          case 'test:coverage': {
            const { totalLineCount } = event.data.summary.totals;
            callback(null, `total line count: ${totalLineCount}\n`);
            break;
          }
        }
      },
    });
    
    export default customReporter;const { Transform } = require('node:stream');
    
    const customReporter = new Transform({
      writableObjectMode: true,
      transform(event, encoding, callback) {
        switch (event.type) {
          case 'test:dequeue':
            callback(null, `test ${event.data.name} dequeued`);
            break;
          case 'test:enqueue':
            callback(null, `test ${event.data.name} enqueued`);
            break;
          case 'test:watch:drained':
            callback(null, 'test watch queue drained');
            break;
          case 'test:start':
            callback(null, `test ${event.data.name} started`);
            break;
          case 'test:pass':
            callback(null, `test ${event.data.name} passed`);
            break;
          case 'test:fail':
            callback(null, `test ${event.data.name} failed`);
            break;
          case 'test:plan':
            callback(null, 'test plan');
            break;
          case 'test:diagnostic':
          case 'test:stderr':
          case 'test:stdout':
            callback(null, event.data.message);
            break;
          case 'test:coverage': {
            const { totalLineCount } = event.data.summary.totals;
            callback(null, `total line count: ${totalLineCount}\n`);
            break;
          }
        }
      },
    });
    
    module.exports = customReporter;copy

Example of a custom reporter using a generator function:

    
    
    export default async function * customReporter(source) {
      for await (const event of source) {
        switch (event.type) {
          case 'test:dequeue':
            yield `test ${event.data.name} dequeued\n`;
            break;
          case 'test:enqueue':
            yield `test ${event.data.name} enqueued\n`;
            break;
          case 'test:watch:drained':
            yield 'test watch queue drained\n';
            break;
          case 'test:start':
            yield `test ${event.data.name} started\n`;
            break;
          case 'test:pass':
            yield `test ${event.data.name} passed\n`;
            break;
          case 'test:fail':
            yield `test ${event.data.name} failed\n`;
            break;
          case 'test:plan':
            yield 'test plan\n';
            break;
          case 'test:diagnostic':
          case 'test:stderr':
          case 'test:stdout':
            yield `${event.data.message}\n`;
            break;
          case 'test:coverage': {
            const { totalLineCount } = event.data.summary.totals;
            yield `total line count: ${totalLineCount}\n`;
            break;
          }
        }
      }
    }module.exports = async function * customReporter(source) {
      for await (const event of source) {
        switch (event.type) {
          case 'test:dequeue':
            yield `test ${event.data.name} dequeued\n`;
            break;
          case 'test:enqueue':
            yield `test ${event.data.name} enqueued\n`;
            break;
          case 'test:watch:drained':
            yield 'test watch queue drained\n';
            break;
          case 'test:start':
            yield `test ${event.data.name} started\n`;
            break;
          case 'test:pass':
            yield `test ${event.data.name} passed\n`;
            break;
          case 'test:fail':
            yield `test ${event.data.name} failed\n`;
            break;
          case 'test:plan':
            yield 'test plan\n';
            break;
          case 'test:diagnostic':
          case 'test:stderr':
          case 'test:stdout':
            yield `${event.data.message}\n`;
            break;
          case 'test:coverage': {
            const { totalLineCount } = event.data.summary.totals;
            yield `total line count: ${totalLineCount}\n`;
            break;
          }
        }
      }
    };copy

The value provided to `--test-reporter` should be a string like one used in an
`import()` in JavaScript code, or a value provided for `--import`.

#### Multiple reporters#

The `--test-reporter` flag can be specified multiple times to report test
results in several formats. In this situation it is required to specify a
destination for each reporter using `--test-reporter-destination`. Destination
can be `stdout`, `stderr`, or a file path. Reporters and destinations are
paired according to the order they were specified.

In the following example, the `spec` reporter will output to `stdout`, and the
`dot` reporter will output to `file.txt`:

    
    
    node --test-reporter=spec --test-reporter=dot --test-reporter-destination=stdout --test-reporter-destination=file.txt copy

When a single reporter is specified, the destination will default to `stdout`,
unless a destination is explicitly provided.

### `run([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.0.0 | Added the `cwd` option.  
v23.0.0 | Added coverage options.  
v22.8.0 | Added the `isolation` option.  
v22.6.0 | Added the `globPatterns` option.  
v22.0.0, v20.14.0 | Added the `forceExit` option.  
v20.1.0, v18.17.0 | Add a testNamePatterns option.  
v18.9.0, v16.19.0 | Added in: v18.9.0, v16.19.0  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Configuration options for running tests. The following properties are supported: 
    * `concurrency` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If a number is provided, then that many test processes would run in parallel, where each process corresponds to one test file. If `true`, it would run `os.availableParallelism() - 1` test files in parallel. If `false`, it would only run one test file at a time. **Default:** `false`.
    * `cwd`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Specifies the current working directory to be used by the test runner. Serves as the base path for resolving files according to the test runner execution model. **Default:** `process.cwd()`.
    * `files`: [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array containing the list of files to run. **Default:** matching files from test runner execution model.
    * `forceExit`: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Configures the test runner to exit the process once all known tests have finished executing even if the event loop would otherwise remain active. **Default:** `false`.
    * `globPatterns`: [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array containing the list of glob patterns to match test files. This option cannot be used together with `files`. **Default:** matching files from test runner execution model.
    * `inspectPort` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Sets inspector port of test child process. This can be a number, or a function that takes no arguments and returns a number. If a nullish value is provided, each process gets its own port, incremented from the primary's `process.debugPort`. This option is ignored if the `isolation` option is set to `'none'` as no child processes are spawned. **Default:** `undefined`.
    * `isolation` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Configures the type of test isolation. If set to `'process'`, each test file is run in a separate child process. If set to `'none'`, all test files run in the current process. **Default:** `'process'`.
    * `only`: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If truthy, the test context will only run tests that have the `only` option set
    * `setup` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A function that accepts the `TestsStream` instance and can be used to setup listeners before any tests are run. **Default:** `undefined`.
    * `execArgv` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array of CLI flags to pass to the `node` executable when spawning the subprocesses. This option has no effect when `isolation` is `'none`'. **Default:** `[]`
    * `argv` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array of CLI flags to pass to each test file when spawning the subprocesses. This option has no effect when `isolation` is `'none'`. **Default:** `[]`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Allows aborting an in-progress test execution.
    * `testNamePatterns` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<RegExp>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp) | [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) A String, RegExp or a RegExp Array, that can be used to only run tests whose name matches the provided pattern. Test name patterns are interpreted as JavaScript regular expressions. For each test that is executed, any corresponding test hooks, such as `beforeEach()`, are also run. **Default:** `undefined`.
    * `testSkipPatterns` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<RegExp>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp) | [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) A String, RegExp or a RegExp Array, that can be used to exclude running tests whose name matches the provided pattern. Test name patterns are interpreted as JavaScript regular expressions. For each test that is executed, any corresponding test hooks, such as `beforeEach()`, are also run. **Default:** `undefined`.
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A number of milliseconds the test execution will fail after. If unspecified, subtests inherit this value from their parent. **Default:** `Infinity`.
    * `watch` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether to run in watch mode or not. **Default:** `false`.
    * `shard` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Running tests in a specific shard. **Default:** `undefined`. 
      * `index` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) is a positive integer between 1 and `<total>` that specifies the index of the shard to run. This option is _required_.
      * `total` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) is a positive integer that specifies the total number of shards to split the test files to. This option is _required_.
    * `coverage` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) enable code coverage collection. **Default:** `false`.
    * `coverageExcludeGlobs` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) Excludes specific files from code coverage using a glob pattern, which can match both absolute and relative file paths. This property is only applicable when `coverage` was set to `true`. If both `coverageExcludeGlobs` and `coverageIncludeGlobs` are provided, files must meet **both** criteria to be included in the coverage report. **Default:** `undefined`.
    * `coverageIncludeGlobs` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) Includes specific files in code coverage using a glob pattern, which can match both absolute and relative file paths. This property is only applicable when `coverage` was set to `true`. If both `coverageExcludeGlobs` and `coverageIncludeGlobs` are provided, files must meet **both** criteria to be included in the coverage report. **Default:** `undefined`.
    * `lineCoverage` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Require a minimum percent of covered lines. If code coverage does not reach the threshold specified, the process will exit with code `1`. **Default:** `0`.
    * `branchCoverage` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Require a minimum percent of covered branches. If code coverage does not reach the threshold specified, the process will exit with code `1`. **Default:** `0`.
    * `functionCoverage` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Require a minimum percent of covered functions. If code coverage does not reach the threshold specified, the process will exit with code `1`. **Default:** `0`.
  * Returns: <TestsStream>

**Note:** `shard` is used to horizontally parallelize test running across
machines or processes, ideal for large-scale executions across varied
environments. It's incompatible with `watch` mode, tailored for rapid code
iteration by automatically rerunning tests on file changes.

    
    
    import { tap } from 'node:test/reporters';
    import { run } from 'node:test';
    import process from 'node:process';
    import path from 'node:path';
    
    run({ files: [path.resolve('./tests/test.js')] })
     .on('test:fail', () => {
       process.exitCode = 1;
     })
     .compose(tap)
     .pipe(process.stdout);const { tap } = require('node:test/reporters');
    const { run } = require('node:test');
    const path = require('node:path');
    
    run({ files: [path.resolve('./tests/test.js')] })
     .on('test:fail', () => {
       process.exitCode = 1;
     })
     .compose(tap)
     .pipe(process.stdout);copy

### `suite([name][, options][, fn])`#

Added in: v22.0.0, v20.13.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The name of the suite, which is displayed when reporting test results. **Default:** The `name` property of `fn`, or `'<anonymous>'` if `fn` does not have a name.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Optional configuration options for the suite. This supports the same options as `test([name][, options][, fn])`.
  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) The suite function declaring nested tests and suites. The first argument to this function is a `SuiteContext` object. **Default:** A no-op function.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Immediately fulfilled with `undefined`.

The `suite()` function is imported from the `node:test` module.

### `suite.skip([name][, options][, fn])`#

Added in: v22.0.0, v20.13.0

Shorthand for skipping a suite. This is the same as `suite([name], { skip:
true }[, fn])`.

### `suite.todo([name][, options][, fn])`#

Added in: v22.0.0, v20.13.0

Shorthand for marking a suite as `TODO`. This is the same as `suite([name], {
todo: true }[, fn])`.

### `suite.only([name][, options][, fn])`#

Added in: v22.0.0, v20.13.0

Shorthand for marking a suite as `only`. This is the same as `suite([name], {
only: true }[, fn])`.

### `test([name][, options][, fn])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.2.0, v18.17.0 | Added the `skip`, `todo`, and `only` shorthands.  
v18.8.0, v16.18.0 | Add a `signal` option.  
v18.7.0, v16.17.0 | Add a `timeout` option.  
v18.0.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.0.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The name of the test, which is displayed when reporting test results. **Default:** The `name` property of `fn`, or `'<anonymous>'` if `fn` does not have a name.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Configuration options for the test. The following properties are supported: 
    * `concurrency` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If a number is provided, then that many tests would run in parallel within the application thread. If `true`, all scheduled asynchronous tests run concurrently within the thread. If `false`, only one test runs at a time. If unspecified, subtests inherit this value from their parent. **Default:** `false`.
    * `only` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If truthy, and the test context is configured to run `only` tests, then this test will be run. Otherwise, the test is skipped. **Default:** `false`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Allows aborting an in-progress test.
    * `skip` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If truthy, the test is skipped. If a string is provided, that string is displayed in the test results as the reason for skipping the test. **Default:** `false`.
    * `todo` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If truthy, the test marked as `TODO`. If a string is provided, that string is displayed in the test results as the reason why the test is `TODO`. **Default:** `false`.
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A number of milliseconds the test will fail after. If unspecified, subtests inherit this value from their parent. **Default:** `Infinity`.
    * `plan` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of assertions and subtests expected to be run in the test. If the number of assertions run in the test does not match the number specified in the plan, the test will fail. **Default:** `undefined`.
  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) The function under test. The first argument to this function is a `TestContext` object. If the test uses callbacks, the callback function is passed as the second argument. **Default:** A no-op function.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfilled with `undefined` once the test completes, or immediately if the test runs within a suite.

The `test()` function is the value imported from the `test` module. Each
invocation of this function results in reporting the test to the
<TestsStream>.

The `TestContext` object passed to the `fn` argument can be used to perform
actions related to the current test. Examples include skipping the test,
adding additional diagnostic information, or creating subtests.

`test()` returns a `Promise` that fulfills once the test completes. if
`test()` is called within a suite, it fulfills immediately. The return value
can usually be discarded for top level tests. However, the return value from
subtests should be used to prevent the parent test from finishing first and
cancelling the subtest as shown in the following example.

    
    
    test('top level test', async (t) => {
      // The setTimeout() in the following subtest would cause it to outlive its
      // parent test if 'await' is removed on the next line. Once the parent test
      // completes, it will cancel any outstanding subtests.
      await t.test('longer running subtest', async (t) => {
        return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
          setTimeout(resolve, 1000);
        });
      });
    }); copy

The `timeout` option can be used to fail the test if it takes longer than
`timeout` milliseconds to complete. However, it is not a reliable mechanism
for canceling tests because a running test might block the application thread
and thus prevent the scheduled cancellation.

### `test.skip([name][, options][, fn])`#

Shorthand for skipping a test, same as `test([name], { skip: true }[, fn])`.

### `test.todo([name][, options][, fn])`#

Shorthand for marking a test as `TODO`, same as `test([name], { todo: true }[,
fn])`.

### `test.only([name][, options][, fn])`#

Shorthand for marking a test as `only`, same as `test([name], { only: true }[,
fn])`.

### `describe([name][, options][, fn])`#

Alias for `suite()`.

The `describe()` function is imported from the `node:test` module.

### `describe.skip([name][, options][, fn])`#

Shorthand for skipping a suite. This is the same as `describe([name], { skip:
true }[, fn])`.

### `describe.todo([name][, options][, fn])`#

Shorthand for marking a suite as `TODO`. This is the same as `describe([name],
{ todo: true }[, fn])`.

### `describe.only([name][, options][, fn])`#

Added in: v19.8.0, v18.15.0

Shorthand for marking a suite as `only`. This is the same as `describe([name],
{ only: true }[, fn])`.

### `it([name][, options][, fn])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.8.0, v18.16.0 | Calling `it()` is now equivalent to calling `test()`.  
v18.6.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.6.0, v16.17.0  
  
Alias for `test()`.

The `it()` function is imported from the `node:test` module.

### `it.skip([name][, options][, fn])`#

Shorthand for skipping a test, same as `it([name], { skip: true }[, fn])`.

### `it.todo([name][, options][, fn])`#

Shorthand for marking a test as `TODO`, same as `it([name], { todo: true }[,
fn])`.

### `it.only([name][, options][, fn])`#

Added in: v19.8.0, v18.15.0

Shorthand for marking a test as `only`, same as `it([name], { only: true }[,
fn])`.

### `before([fn][, options])`#

Added in: v18.8.0, v16.18.0

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) The hook function. If the hook uses callbacks, the callback function is passed as the second argument. **Default:** A no-op function.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Configuration options for the hook. The following properties are supported: 
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Allows aborting an in-progress hook.
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A number of milliseconds the hook will fail after. If unspecified, subtests inherit this value from their parent. **Default:** `Infinity`.

This function creates a hook that runs before executing a suite.

    
    
    describe('tests', async () => {
      before(() => console.log('about to run some test'));
      it('is a subtest', () => {
        assert.ok('some relevant assertion here');
      });
    }); copy

### `after([fn][, options])`#

Added in: v18.8.0, v16.18.0

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) The hook function. If the hook uses callbacks, the callback function is passed as the second argument. **Default:** A no-op function.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Configuration options for the hook. The following properties are supported: 
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Allows aborting an in-progress hook.
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A number of milliseconds the hook will fail after. If unspecified, subtests inherit this value from their parent. **Default:** `Infinity`.

This function creates a hook that runs after executing a suite.

    
    
    describe('tests', async () => {
      after(() => console.log('finished running tests'));
      it('is a subtest', () => {
        assert.ok('some relevant assertion here');
      });
    }); copy

**Note:** The `after` hook is guaranteed to run, even if tests within the
suite fail.

### `beforeEach([fn][, options])`#

Added in: v18.8.0, v16.18.0

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) The hook function. If the hook uses callbacks, the callback function is passed as the second argument. **Default:** A no-op function.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Configuration options for the hook. The following properties are supported: 
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Allows aborting an in-progress hook.
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A number of milliseconds the hook will fail after. If unspecified, subtests inherit this value from their parent. **Default:** `Infinity`.

This function creates a hook that runs before each test in the current suite.

    
    
    describe('tests', async () => {
      beforeEach(() => console.log('about to run a test'));
      it('is a subtest', () => {
        assert.ok('some relevant assertion here');
      });
    }); copy

### `afterEach([fn][, options])`#

Added in: v18.8.0, v16.18.0

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) The hook function. If the hook uses callbacks, the callback function is passed as the second argument. **Default:** A no-op function.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Configuration options for the hook. The following properties are supported: 
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Allows aborting an in-progress hook.
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A number of milliseconds the hook will fail after. If unspecified, subtests inherit this value from their parent. **Default:** `Infinity`.

This function creates a hook that runs after each test in the current suite.
The `afterEach()` hook is run even if the test fails.

    
    
    describe('tests', async () => {
      afterEach(() => console.log('finished running a test'));
      it('is a subtest', () => {
        assert.ok('some relevant assertion here');
      });
    }); copy

### `assert`#

Added in: v23.7.0

An object whose methods are used to configure available assertions on the
`TestContext` objects in the current process. The methods from `node:assert`
and snapshot testing functions are available by default.

It is possible to apply the same configuration to all files by placing common
configuration code in a module preloaded with `--require` or `--import`.

#### `assert.register(name, fn)`#

Added in: v23.7.0

Defines a new assertion function with the provided name and function. If an
assertion already exists with the same name, it is overwritten.

### `snapshot`#

Added in: v22.3.0

An object whose methods are used to configure default snapshot settings in the
current process. It is possible to apply the same configuration to all files
by placing common configuration code in a module preloaded with `--require` or
`--import`.

#### `snapshot.setDefaultSnapshotSerializers(serializers)`#

Added in: v22.3.0

  * `serializers` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array of synchronous functions used as the default serializers for snapshot tests.

This function is used to customize the default serialization mechanism used by
the test runner. By default, the test runner performs serialization by calling
`JSON.stringify(value, null, 2)` on the provided value. `JSON.stringify()`
does have limitations regarding circular structures and supported data types.
If a more robust serialization mechanism is required, this function should be
used.

#### `snapshot.setResolveSnapshotPath(fn)`#

Added in: v22.3.0

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A function used to compute the location of the snapshot file. The function receives the path of the test file as its only argument. If the test is not associated with a file (for example in the REPL), the input is undefined. `fn()` must return a string specifying the location of the snapshot snapshot file.

This function is used to customize the location of the snapshot file used for
snapshot testing. By default, the snapshot filename is the same as the entry
point filename with a `.snapshot` file extension.

### Class: `MockFunctionContext`#

Added in: v19.1.0, v18.13.0

The `MockFunctionContext` class is used to inspect or manipulate the behavior
of mocks created via the `MockTracker` APIs.

#### `ctx.calls`#

Added in: v19.1.0, v18.13.0

  * [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array)

A getter that returns a copy of the internal array used to track calls to the
mock. Each entry in the array is an object with the following properties.

  * `arguments` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array of the arguments passed to the mock function.
  * `error` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) If the mocked function threw then this property contains the thrown value. **Default:** `undefined`.
  * `result` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The value returned by the mocked function.
  * `stack` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) An `Error` object whose stack can be used to determine the callsite of the mocked function invocation.
  * `target` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) If the mocked function is a constructor, this field contains the class being constructed. Otherwise this will be `undefined`.
  * `this` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The mocked function's `this` value.

#### `ctx.callCount()`#

Added in: v19.1.0, v18.13.0

  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of times that this mock has been invoked.

This function returns the number of times that this mock has been invoked.
This function is more efficient than checking `ctx.calls.length` because
`ctx.calls` is a getter that creates a copy of the internal call tracking
array.

#### `ctx.mockImplementation(implementation)`#

Added in: v19.1.0, v18.13.0

  * `implementation` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) The function to be used as the mock's new implementation.

This function is used to change the behavior of an existing mock.

The following example creates a mock function using `t.mock.fn()`, calls the
mock function, and then changes the mock implementation to a different
function.

    
    
    test('changes a mock behavior', (t) => {
      let cnt = 0;
    
      function addOne() {
        cnt++;
        return cnt;
      }
    
      function addTwo() {
        cnt += 2;
        return cnt;
      }
    
      const fn = t.mock.fn(addOne);
    
      assert.strictEqual(fn(), 1);
      fn.mock.mockImplementation(addTwo);
      assert.strictEqual(fn(), 3);
      assert.strictEqual(fn(), 5);
    }); copy

#### `ctx.mockImplementationOnce(implementation[, onCall])`#

Added in: v19.1.0, v18.13.0

  * `implementation` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) The function to be used as the mock's implementation for the invocation number specified by `onCall`.
  * `onCall` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The invocation number that will use `implementation`. If the specified invocation has already occurred then an exception is thrown. **Default:** The number of the next invocation.

This function is used to change the behavior of an existing mock for a single
invocation. Once invocation `onCall` has occurred, the mock will revert to
whatever behavior it would have used had `mockImplementationOnce()` not been
called.

The following example creates a mock function using `t.mock.fn()`, calls the
mock function, changes the mock implementation to a different function for the
next invocation, and then resumes its previous behavior.

    
    
    test('changes a mock behavior once', (t) => {
      let cnt = 0;
    
      function addOne() {
        cnt++;
        return cnt;
      }
    
      function addTwo() {
        cnt += 2;
        return cnt;
      }
    
      const fn = t.mock.fn(addOne);
    
      assert.strictEqual(fn(), 1);
      fn.mock.mockImplementationOnce(addTwo);
      assert.strictEqual(fn(), 3);
      assert.strictEqual(fn(), 4);
    }); copy

#### `ctx.resetCalls()`#

Added in: v19.3.0, v18.13.0

Resets the call history of the mock function.

#### `ctx.restore()`#

Added in: v19.1.0, v18.13.0

Resets the implementation of the mock function to its original behavior. The
mock can still be used after calling this function.

### Class: `MockModuleContext`#

Added in: v22.3.0, v20.18.0

Stability: 1.0 - Early development

The `MockModuleContext` class is used to manipulate the behavior of module
mocks created via the `MockTracker` APIs.

#### `ctx.restore()`#

Added in: v22.3.0, v20.18.0

Resets the implementation of the mock module.

### Class: `MockTracker`#

Added in: v19.1.0, v18.13.0

The `MockTracker` class is used to manage mocking functionality. The test
runner module provides a top level `mock` export which is a `MockTracker`
instance. Each test also provides its own `MockTracker` instance via the test
context's `mock` property.

#### `mock.fn([original[, implementation]][, options])`#

Added in: v19.1.0, v18.13.0

  * `original` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) An optional function to create a mock on. **Default:** A no-op function.
  * `implementation` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) An optional function used as the mock implementation for `original`. This is useful for creating mocks that exhibit one behavior for a specified number of calls and then restore the behavior of `original`. **Default:** The function specified by `original`.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Optional configuration options for the mock function. The following properties are supported: 
    * `times` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of times that the mock will use the behavior of `implementation`. Once the mock function has been called `times` times, it will automatically restore the behavior of `original`. This value must be an integer greater than zero. **Default:** `Infinity`.
  * Returns: [<Proxy>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Proxy) The mocked function. The mocked function contains a special `mock` property, which is an instance of `MockFunctionContext`, and can be used for inspecting and changing the behavior of the mocked function.

This function is used to create a mock function.

The following example creates a mock function that increments a counter by one
on each invocation. The `times` option is used to modify the mock behavior
such that the first two invocations add two to the counter instead of one.

    
    
    test('mocks a counting function', (t) => {
      let cnt = 0;
    
      function addOne() {
        cnt++;
        return cnt;
      }
    
      function addTwo() {
        cnt += 2;
        return cnt;
      }
    
      const fn = t.mock.fn(addOne, addTwo, { times: 2 });
    
      assert.strictEqual(fn(), 2);
      assert.strictEqual(fn(), 4);
      assert.strictEqual(fn(), 5);
      assert.strictEqual(fn(), 6);
    }); copy

#### `mock.getter(object, methodName[, implementation][, options])`#

Added in: v19.3.0, v18.13.0

This function is syntax sugar for `MockTracker.method` with `options.getter`
set to `true`.

#### `mock.method(object, methodName[, implementation][, options])`#

Added in: v19.1.0, v18.13.0

  * `object` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The object whose method is being mocked.
  * `methodName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) The identifier of the method on `object` to mock. If `object[methodName]` is not a function, an error is thrown.
  * `implementation` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) An optional function used as the mock implementation for `object[methodName]`. **Default:** The original method specified by `object[methodName]`.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Optional configuration options for the mock method. The following properties are supported: 
    * `getter` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, `object[methodName]` is treated as a getter. This option cannot be used with the `setter` option. **Default:** false.
    * `setter` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, `object[methodName]` is treated as a setter. This option cannot be used with the `getter` option. **Default:** false.
    * `times` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of times that the mock will use the behavior of `implementation`. Once the mocked method has been called `times` times, it will automatically restore the original behavior. This value must be an integer greater than zero. **Default:** `Infinity`.
  * Returns: [<Proxy>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Proxy) The mocked method. The mocked method contains a special `mock` property, which is an instance of `MockFunctionContext`, and can be used for inspecting and changing the behavior of the mocked method.

This function is used to create a mock on an existing object method. The
following example demonstrates how a mock is created on an existing object
method.

    
    
    test('spies on an object method', (t) => {
      const number = {
        value: 5,
        subtract(a) {
          return this.value - a;
        },
      };
    
      t.mock.method(number, 'subtract');
      assert.strictEqual(number.subtract.mock.callCount(), 0);
      assert.strictEqual(number.subtract(3), 2);
      assert.strictEqual(number.subtract.mock.callCount(), 1);
    
      const call = number.subtract.mock.calls[0];
    
      assert.deepStrictEqual(call.arguments, [3]);
      assert.strictEqual(call.result, 2);
      assert.strictEqual(call.error, undefined);
      assert.strictEqual(call.target, undefined);
      assert.strictEqual(call.this, number);
    }); copy

#### `mock.module(specifier[, options])`#

Added in: v22.3.0, v20.18.0

Stability: 1.0 - Early development

  * `specifier` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> A string identifying the module to mock.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Optional configuration options for the mock module. The following properties are supported: 
    * `cache` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `false`, each call to `require()` or `import()` generates a new mock module. If `true`, subsequent calls will return the same module mock, and the mock module is inserted into the CommonJS cache. **Default:** false.
    * `defaultExport` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) An optional value used as the mocked module's default export. If this value is not provided, ESM mocks do not include a default export. If the mock is a CommonJS or builtin module, this setting is used as the value of `module.exports`. If this value is not provided, CJS and builtin mocks use an empty object as the value of `module.exports`.
    * `namedExports` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An optional object whose keys and values are used to create the named exports of the mock module. If the mock is a CommonJS or builtin module, these values are copied onto `module.exports`. Therefore, if a mock is created with both named exports and a non-object default export, the mock will throw an exception when used as a CJS or builtin module.
  * Returns: <MockModuleContext> An object that can be used to manipulate the mock.

This function is used to mock the exports of ECMAScript modules, CommonJS
modules, and Node.js builtin modules. Any references to the original module
prior to mocking are not impacted. In order to enable module mocking, Node.js
must be started with the `--experimental-test-module-mocks` command-line flag.

The following example demonstrates how a mock is created for a module.

    
    
    test('mocks a builtin module in both module systems', async (t) => {
      // Create a mock of 'node:readline' with a named export named 'fn', which
      // does not exist in the original 'node:readline' module.
      const mock = t.mock.module('node:readline', {
        namedExports: { fn() { return 42; } },
      });
    
      let esmImpl = await import('node:readline');
      let cjsImpl = require('node:readline');
    
      // cursorTo() is an export of the original 'node:readline' module.
      assert.strictEqual(esmImpl.cursorTo, undefined);
      assert.strictEqual(cjsImpl.cursorTo, undefined);
      assert.strictEqual(esmImpl.fn(), 42);
      assert.strictEqual(cjsImpl.fn(), 42);
    
      mock.restore();
    
      // The mock is restored, so the original builtin module is returned.
      esmImpl = await import('node:readline');
      cjsImpl = require('node:readline');
    
      assert.strictEqual(typeof esmImpl.cursorTo, 'function');
      assert.strictEqual(typeof cjsImpl.cursorTo, 'function');
      assert.strictEqual(esmImpl.fn, undefined);
      assert.strictEqual(cjsImpl.fn, undefined);
    }); copy

#### `mock.reset()`#

Added in: v19.1.0, v18.13.0

This function restores the default behavior of all mocks that were previously
created by this `MockTracker` and disassociates the mocks from the
`MockTracker` instance. Once disassociated, the mocks can still be used, but
the `MockTracker` instance can no longer be used to reset their behavior or
otherwise interact with them.

After each test completes, this function is called on the test context's
`MockTracker`. If the global `MockTracker` is used extensively, calling this
function manually is recommended.

#### `mock.restoreAll()`#

Added in: v19.1.0, v18.13.0

This function restores the default behavior of all mocks that were previously
created by this `MockTracker`. Unlike `mock.reset()`, `mock.restoreAll()` does
not disassociate the mocks from the `MockTracker` instance.

#### `mock.setter(object, methodName[, implementation][, options])`#

Added in: v19.3.0, v18.13.0

This function is syntax sugar for `MockTracker.method` with `options.setter`
set to `true`.

### Class: `MockTimers`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.1.0 | The Mock Timers is now stable.  
v20.4.0, v18.19.0 | Added in: v20.4.0, v18.19.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

Mocking timers is a technique commonly used in software testing to simulate
and control the behavior of timers, such as `setInterval` and `setTimeout`,
without actually waiting for the specified time intervals.

MockTimers is also able to mock the `Date` object.

The `MockTracker` provides a top-level `timers` export which is a `MockTimers`
instance.

#### `timers.enable([enableOptions])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.2.0, v20.11.0 | Updated parameters to be an option object with available APIs and the default initial epoch.  
v20.4.0, v18.19.0 | Added in: v20.4.0, v18.19.0  
  
Enables timer mocking for the specified timers.

  * `enableOptions` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Optional configuration options for enabling timer mocking. The following properties are supported: 
    * `apis` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An optional array containing the timers to mock. The currently supported timer values are `'setInterval'`, `'setTimeout'`, `'setImmediate'`, and `'Date'`. **Default:** `['setInterval', 'setTimeout', 'setImmediate', 'Date']`. If no array is provided, all time related APIs (`'setInterval'`, `'clearInterval'`, `'setTimeout'`, `'clearTimeout'`, `'setImmediate'`, `'clearImmediate'`, and `'Date'`) will be mocked by default.
    * `now` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date) An optional number or Date object representing the initial time (in milliseconds) to use as the value for `Date.now()`. **Default:** `0`.

**Note:** When you enable mocking for a specific timer, its associated clear
function will also be implicitly mocked.

**Note:** Mocking `Date` will affect the behavior of the mocked timers as they
use the same internal clock.

Example usage without setting initial time:

    
    
    import { mock } from 'node:test';
    mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setInterval'] });const { mock } = require('node:test');
    mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setInterval'] });copy

The above example enables mocking for the `setInterval` timer and implicitly
mocks the `clearInterval` function. Only the `setInterval` and `clearInterval`
functions from [node:timers](./timers.html),
[node:timers/promises](./timers.html#timers-promises-api), and `globalThis`
will be mocked.

Example usage with initial time set

    
    
    import { mock } from 'node:test';
    mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['Date'], now: 1000 });const { mock } = require('node:test');
    mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['Date'], now: 1000 });copy

Example usage with initial Date object as time set

    
    
    import { mock } from 'node:test';
    mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['Date'], now: new Date() });const { mock } = require('node:test');
    mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['Date'], now: new Date() });copy

Alternatively, if you call `mock.timers.enable()` without any parameters:

All timers (`'setInterval'`, `'clearInterval'`, `'setTimeout'`,
`'clearTimeout'`, `'setImmediate'`, and `'clearImmediate'`) will be mocked.
The `setInterval`, `clearInterval`, `setTimeout`, `clearTimeout`,
`setImmediate`, and `clearImmediate` functions from `node:timers`,
`node:timers/promises`, and `globalThis` will be mocked. As well as the global
`Date` object.

#### `timers.reset()`#

Added in: v20.4.0, v18.19.0

This function restores the default behavior of all mocks that were previously
created by this `MockTimers` instance and disassociates the mocks from the
`MockTracker` instance.

**Note:** After each test completes, this function is called on the test
context's `MockTracker`.

    
    
    import { mock } from 'node:test';
    mock.timers.reset();const { mock } = require('node:test');
    mock.timers.reset();copy

#### `timers[Symbol.dispose]()`#

Calls `timers.reset()`.

#### `timers.tick([milliseconds])`#

Added in: v20.4.0, v18.19.0

Advances time for all mocked timers.

  * `milliseconds` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The amount of time, in milliseconds, to advance the timers. **Default:** `1`.

**Note:** This diverges from how `setTimeout` in Node.js behaves and accepts
only positive numbers. In Node.js, `setTimeout` with negative numbers is only
supported for web compatibility reasons.

The following example mocks a `setTimeout` function and by using `.tick`
advances in time triggering all pending timers.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { test } from 'node:test';
    
    test('mocks setTimeout to be executed synchronously without having to actually wait for it', (context) => {
      const fn = context.mock.fn();
    
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout'] });
    
      setTimeout(fn, 9999);
    
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 0);
    
      // Advance in time
      context.mock.timers.tick(9999);
    
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 1);
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { test } = require('node:test');
    
    test('mocks setTimeout to be executed synchronously without having to actually wait for it', (context) => {
      const fn = context.mock.fn();
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout'] });
    
      setTimeout(fn, 9999);
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 0);
    
      // Advance in time
      context.mock.timers.tick(9999);
    
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 1);
    });copy

Alternatively, the `.tick` function can be called many times

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { test } from 'node:test';
    
    test('mocks setTimeout to be executed synchronously without having to actually wait for it', (context) => {
      const fn = context.mock.fn();
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout'] });
      const nineSecs = 9000;
      setTimeout(fn, nineSecs);
    
      const threeSeconds = 3000;
      context.mock.timers.tick(threeSeconds);
      context.mock.timers.tick(threeSeconds);
      context.mock.timers.tick(threeSeconds);
    
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 1);
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { test } = require('node:test');
    
    test('mocks setTimeout to be executed synchronously without having to actually wait for it', (context) => {
      const fn = context.mock.fn();
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout'] });
      const nineSecs = 9000;
      setTimeout(fn, nineSecs);
    
      const threeSeconds = 3000;
      context.mock.timers.tick(threeSeconds);
      context.mock.timers.tick(threeSeconds);
      context.mock.timers.tick(threeSeconds);
    
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 1);
    });copy

Advancing time using `.tick` will also advance the time for any `Date` object
created after the mock was enabled (if `Date` was also set to be mocked).

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { test } from 'node:test';
    
    test('mocks setTimeout to be executed synchronously without having to actually wait for it', (context) => {
      const fn = context.mock.fn();
    
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout', 'Date'] });
      setTimeout(fn, 9999);
    
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 0);
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 0);
    
      // Advance in time
      context.mock.timers.tick(9999);
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 1);
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 9999);
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { test } = require('node:test');
    
    test('mocks setTimeout to be executed synchronously without having to actually wait for it', (context) => {
      const fn = context.mock.fn();
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout', 'Date'] });
    
      setTimeout(fn, 9999);
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 0);
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 0);
    
      // Advance in time
      context.mock.timers.tick(9999);
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 1);
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 9999);
    });copy

##### Using clear functions#

As mentioned, all clear functions from timers (`clearTimeout`,
`clearInterval`,and `clearImmediate`) are implicitly mocked. Take a look at
this example using `setTimeout`:

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { test } from 'node:test';
    
    test('mocks setTimeout to be executed synchronously without having to actually wait for it', (context) => {
      const fn = context.mock.fn();
    
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout'] });
      const id = setTimeout(fn, 9999);
    
      // Implicitly mocked as well
      clearTimeout(id);
      context.mock.timers.tick(9999);
    
      // As that setTimeout was cleared the mock function will never be called
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 0);
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { test } = require('node:test');
    
    test('mocks setTimeout to be executed synchronously without having to actually wait for it', (context) => {
      const fn = context.mock.fn();
    
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout'] });
      const id = setTimeout(fn, 9999);
    
      // Implicitly mocked as well
      clearTimeout(id);
      context.mock.timers.tick(9999);
    
      // As that setTimeout was cleared the mock function will never be called
      assert.strictEqual(fn.mock.callCount(), 0);
    });copy

##### Working with Node.js timers modules#

Once you enable mocking timers, [node:timers](./timers.html),
[node:timers/promises](./timers.html#timers-promises-api) modules, and timers
from the Node.js global context are enabled:

**Note:** Destructuring functions such as `import { setTimeout } from
'node:timers'` is currently not supported by this API.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { test } from 'node:test';
    import nodeTimers from 'node:timers';
    import nodeTimersPromises from 'node:timers/promises';
    
    test('mocks setTimeout to be executed synchronously without having to actually wait for it', async (context) => {
      const globalTimeoutObjectSpy = context.mock.fn();
      const nodeTimerSpy = context.mock.fn();
      const nodeTimerPromiseSpy = context.mock.fn();
    
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout'] });
      setTimeout(globalTimeoutObjectSpy, 9999);
      nodeTimers.setTimeout(nodeTimerSpy, 9999);
    
      const promise = nodeTimersPromises.setTimeout(9999).then(nodeTimerPromiseSpy);
    
      // Advance in time
      context.mock.timers.tick(9999);
      assert.strictEqual(globalTimeoutObjectSpy.mock.callCount(), 1);
      assert.strictEqual(nodeTimerSpy.mock.callCount(), 1);
      await promise;
      assert.strictEqual(nodeTimerPromiseSpy.mock.callCount(), 1);
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { test } = require('node:test');
    const nodeTimers = require('node:timers');
    const nodeTimersPromises = require('node:timers/promises');
    
    test('mocks setTimeout to be executed synchronously without having to actually wait for it', async (context) => {
      const globalTimeoutObjectSpy = context.mock.fn();
      const nodeTimerSpy = context.mock.fn();
      const nodeTimerPromiseSpy = context.mock.fn();
    
      // Optionally choose what to mock
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout'] });
      setTimeout(globalTimeoutObjectSpy, 9999);
      nodeTimers.setTimeout(nodeTimerSpy, 9999);
    
      const promise = nodeTimersPromises.setTimeout(9999).then(nodeTimerPromiseSpy);
    
      // Advance in time
      context.mock.timers.tick(9999);
      assert.strictEqual(globalTimeoutObjectSpy.mock.callCount(), 1);
      assert.strictEqual(nodeTimerSpy.mock.callCount(), 1);
      await promise;
      assert.strictEqual(nodeTimerPromiseSpy.mock.callCount(), 1);
    });copy

In Node.js, `setInterval` from [node:timers/promises](./timers.html#timers-
promises-api) is an `AsyncGenerator` and is also supported by this API:

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { test } from 'node:test';
    import nodeTimersPromises from 'node:timers/promises';
    test('should tick five times testing a real use case', async (context) => {
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setInterval'] });
    
      const expectedIterations = 3;
      const interval = 1000;
      const startedAt = Date.now();
      async function run() {
        const times = [];
        for await (const time of nodeTimersPromises.setInterval(interval, startedAt)) {
          times.push(time);
          if (times.length === expectedIterations) break;
        }
        return times;
      }
    
      const r = run();
      context.mock.timers.tick(interval);
      context.mock.timers.tick(interval);
      context.mock.timers.tick(interval);
    
      const timeResults = await r;
      assert.strictEqual(timeResults.length, expectedIterations);
      for (let it = 1; it < expectedIterations; it++) {
        assert.strictEqual(timeResults[it - 1], startedAt + (interval * it));
      }
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { test } = require('node:test');
    const nodeTimersPromises = require('node:timers/promises');
    test('should tick five times testing a real use case', async (context) => {
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setInterval'] });
    
      const expectedIterations = 3;
      const interval = 1000;
      const startedAt = Date.now();
      async function run() {
        const times = [];
        for await (const time of nodeTimersPromises.setInterval(interval, startedAt)) {
          times.push(time);
          if (times.length === expectedIterations) break;
        }
        return times;
      }
    
      const r = run();
      context.mock.timers.tick(interval);
      context.mock.timers.tick(interval);
      context.mock.timers.tick(interval);
    
      const timeResults = await r;
      assert.strictEqual(timeResults.length, expectedIterations);
      for (let it = 1; it < expectedIterations; it++) {
        assert.strictEqual(timeResults[it - 1], startedAt + (interval * it));
      }
    });copy

#### `timers.runAll()`#

Added in: v20.4.0, v18.19.0

Triggers all pending mocked timers immediately. If the `Date` object is also
mocked, it will also advance the `Date` object to the furthest timer's time.

The example below triggers all pending timers immediately, causing them to
execute without any delay.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { test } from 'node:test';
    
    test('runAll functions following the given order', (context) => {
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout', 'Date'] });
      const results = [];
      setTimeout(() => results.push(1), 9999);
    
      // Notice that if both timers have the same timeout,
      // the order of execution is guaranteed
      setTimeout(() => results.push(3), 8888);
      setTimeout(() => results.push(2), 8888);
    
      assert.deepStrictEqual(results, []);
    
      context.mock.timers.runAll();
      assert.deepStrictEqual(results, [3, 2, 1]);
      // The Date object is also advanced to the furthest timer's time
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 9999);
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { test } = require('node:test');
    
    test('runAll functions following the given order', (context) => {
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout', 'Date'] });
      const results = [];
      setTimeout(() => results.push(1), 9999);
    
      // Notice that if both timers have the same timeout,
      // the order of execution is guaranteed
      setTimeout(() => results.push(3), 8888);
      setTimeout(() => results.push(2), 8888);
    
      assert.deepStrictEqual(results, []);
    
      context.mock.timers.runAll();
      assert.deepStrictEqual(results, [3, 2, 1]);
      // The Date object is also advanced to the furthest timer's time
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 9999);
    });copy

**Note:** The `runAll()` function is specifically designed for triggering
timers in the context of timer mocking. It does not have any effect on real-
time system clocks or actual timers outside of the mocking environment.

#### `timers.setTime(milliseconds)`#

Added in: v21.2.0, v20.11.0

Sets the current Unix timestamp that will be used as reference for any mocked
`Date` objects.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { test } from 'node:test';
    
    test('runAll functions following the given order', (context) => {
      const now = Date.now();
      const setTime = 1000;
      // Date.now is not mocked
      assert.deepStrictEqual(Date.now(), now);
    
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['Date'] });
      context.mock.timers.setTime(setTime);
      // Date.now is now 1000
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), setTime);
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { test } = require('node:test');
    
    test('setTime replaces current time', (context) => {
      const now = Date.now();
      const setTime = 1000;
      // Date.now is not mocked
      assert.deepStrictEqual(Date.now(), now);
    
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['Date'] });
      context.mock.timers.setTime(setTime);
      // Date.now is now 1000
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), setTime);
    });copy

##### Dates and Timers working together#

Dates and timer objects are dependent on each other. If you use `setTime()` to
pass the current time to the mocked `Date` object, the set timers with
`setTimeout` and `setInterval` will **not** be affected.

However, the `tick` method **will** advanced the mocked `Date` object.

    
    
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    import { test } from 'node:test';
    
    test('runAll functions following the given order', (context) => {
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout', 'Date'] });
      const results = [];
      setTimeout(() => results.push(1), 9999);
    
      assert.deepStrictEqual(results, []);
      context.mock.timers.setTime(12000);
      assert.deepStrictEqual(results, []);
      // The date is advanced but the timers don't tick
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 12000);
    });const assert = require('node:assert');
    const { test } = require('node:test');
    
    test('runAll functions following the given order', (context) => {
      context.mock.timers.enable({ apis: ['setTimeout', 'Date'] });
      const results = [];
      setTimeout(() => results.push(1), 9999);
    
      assert.deepStrictEqual(results, []);
      context.mock.timers.setTime(12000);
      assert.deepStrictEqual(results, []);
      // The date is advanced but the timers don't tick
      assert.strictEqual(Date.now(), 12000);
    });copy

### Class: `TestsStream`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0, v19.9.0, v18.17.0 | added type to test:pass and test:fail events for when the test is a suite.  
v18.9.0, v16.19.0 | Added in: v18.9.0, v16.19.0  
  
  * Extends <Readable>

A successful call to `run()` method will return a new <TestsStream> object,
streaming a series of events representing the execution of the tests.
`TestsStream` will emit events, in the order of the tests definition

Some of the events are guaranteed to be emitted in the same order as the tests
are defined, while others are emitted in the order that the tests execute.

#### Event: `'test:coverage'`#

  * `data` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `summary` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An object containing the coverage report. 
      * `files` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array of coverage reports for individual files. Each report is an object with the following schema: 
        * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The absolute path of the file.
        * `totalLineCount` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The total number of lines.
        * `totalBranchCount` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The total number of branches.
        * `totalFunctionCount` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The total number of functions.
        * `coveredLineCount` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of covered lines.
        * `coveredBranchCount` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of covered branches.
        * `coveredFunctionCount` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of covered functions.
        * `coveredLinePercent` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The percentage of lines covered.
        * `coveredBranchPercent` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The percentage of branches covered.
        * `coveredFunctionPercent` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The percentage of functions covered.
        * `functions` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array of functions representing function coverage. 
          * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The name of the function.
          * `line` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The line number where the function is defined.
          * `count` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of times the function was called.
        * `branches` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array of branches representing branch coverage. 
          * `line` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The line number where the branch is defined.
          * `count` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of times the branch was taken.
        * `lines` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array of lines representing line numbers and the number of times they were covered. 
          * `line` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The line number.
          * `count` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of times the line was covered.
      * `thresholds` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An object containing whether or not the coverage for each coverage type. 
        * `function` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The function coverage threshold.
        * `branch` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The branch coverage threshold.
        * `line` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The line coverage threshold.
      * `totals` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An object containing a summary of coverage for all files. 
        * `totalLineCount` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The total number of lines.
        * `totalBranchCount` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The total number of branches.
        * `totalFunctionCount` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The total number of functions.
        * `coveredLineCount` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of covered lines.
        * `coveredBranchCount` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of covered branches.
        * `coveredFunctionCount` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of covered functions.
        * `coveredLinePercent` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The percentage of lines covered.
        * `coveredBranchPercent` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The percentage of branches covered.
        * `coveredFunctionPercent` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The percentage of functions covered.
      * `workingDirectory` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The working directory when code coverage began. This is useful for displaying relative path names in case the tests changed the working directory of the Node.js process.
    * `nesting` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The nesting level of the test.

Emitted when code coverage is enabled and all tests have completed.

#### Event: `'test:complete'`#

  * `data` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `column` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The column number where the test is defined, or `undefined` if the test was run through the REPL.
    * `details` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Additional execution metadata. 
      * `passed` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether the test passed or not.
      * `duration_ms` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The duration of the test in milliseconds.
      * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) An error wrapping the error thrown by the test if it did not pass. 
        * `cause` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) The actual error thrown by the test.
      * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The type of the test, used to denote whether this is a suite.
    * `file` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The path of the test file, `undefined` if test was run through the REPL.
    * `line` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The line number where the test is defined, or `undefined` if the test was run through the REPL.
    * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The test name.
    * `nesting` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The nesting level of the test.
    * `testNumber` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The ordinal number of the test.
    * `todo` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Present if `context.todo` is called
    * `skip` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Present if `context.skip` is called

Emitted when a test completes its execution. This event is not emitted in the
same order as the tests are defined. The corresponding declaration ordered
events are `'test:pass'` and `'test:fail'`.

#### Event: `'test:dequeue'`#

  * `data` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `column` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The column number where the test is defined, or `undefined` if the test was run through the REPL.
    * `file` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The path of the test file, `undefined` if test was run through the REPL.
    * `line` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The line number where the test is defined, or `undefined` if the test was run through the REPL.
    * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The test name.
    * `nesting` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The nesting level of the test.
    * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The test type. Either `'suite'` or `'test'`.

Emitted when a test is dequeued, right before it is executed. This event is
not guaranteed to be emitted in the same order as the tests are defined. The
corresponding declaration ordered event is `'test:start'`.

#### Event: `'test:diagnostic'`#

  * `data` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `column` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The column number where the test is defined, or `undefined` if the test was run through the REPL.
    * `file` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The path of the test file, `undefined` if test was run through the REPL.
    * `line` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The line number where the test is defined, or `undefined` if the test was run through the REPL.
    * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The diagnostic message.
    * `nesting` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The nesting level of the test.

Emitted when `context.diagnostic` is called. This event is guaranteed to be
emitted in the same order as the tests are defined.

#### Event: `'test:enqueue'`#

  * `data` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `column` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The column number where the test is defined, or `undefined` if the test was run through the REPL.
    * `file` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The path of the test file, `undefined` if test was run through the REPL.
    * `line` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The line number where the test is defined, or `undefined` if the test was run through the REPL.
    * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The test name.
    * `nesting` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The nesting level of the test.
    * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The test type. Either `'suite'` or `'test'`.

Emitted when a test is enqueued for execution.

#### Event: `'test:fail'`#

  * `data` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `column` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The column number where the test is defined, or `undefined` if the test was run through the REPL.
    * `details` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Additional execution metadata. 
      * `duration_ms` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The duration of the test in milliseconds.
      * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) An error wrapping the error thrown by the test. 
        * `cause` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) The actual error thrown by the test.
      * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The type of the test, used to denote whether this is a suite.
    * `file` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The path of the test file, `undefined` if test was run through the REPL.
    * `line` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The line number where the test is defined, or `undefined` if the test was run through the REPL.
    * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The test name.
    * `nesting` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The nesting level of the test.
    * `testNumber` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The ordinal number of the test.
    * `todo` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Present if `context.todo` is called
    * `skip` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Present if `context.skip` is called

Emitted when a test fails. This event is guaranteed to be emitted in the same
order as the tests are defined. The corresponding execution ordered event is
`'test:complete'`.

#### Event: `'test:pass'`#

  * `data` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `column` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The column number where the test is defined, or `undefined` if the test was run through the REPL.
    * `details` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Additional execution metadata. 
      * `duration_ms` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The duration of the test in milliseconds.
      * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The type of the test, used to denote whether this is a suite.
    * `file` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The path of the test file, `undefined` if test was run through the REPL.
    * `line` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The line number where the test is defined, or `undefined` if the test was run through the REPL.
    * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The test name.
    * `nesting` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The nesting level of the test.
    * `testNumber` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The ordinal number of the test.
    * `todo` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Present if `context.todo` is called
    * `skip` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Present if `context.skip` is called

Emitted when a test passes. This event is guaranteed to be emitted in the same
order as the tests are defined. The corresponding execution ordered event is
`'test:complete'`.

#### Event: `'test:plan'`#

  * `data` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `column` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The column number where the test is defined, or `undefined` if the test was run through the REPL.
    * `file` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The path of the test file, `undefined` if test was run through the REPL.
    * `line` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The line number where the test is defined, or `undefined` if the test was run through the REPL.
    * `nesting` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The nesting level of the test.
    * `count` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of subtests that have ran.

Emitted when all subtests have completed for a given test. This event is
guaranteed to be emitted in the same order as the tests are defined.

#### Event: `'test:start'`#

  * `data` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `column` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The column number where the test is defined, or `undefined` if the test was run through the REPL.
    * `file` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The path of the test file, `undefined` if test was run through the REPL.
    * `line` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The line number where the test is defined, or `undefined` if the test was run through the REPL.
    * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The test name.
    * `nesting` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The nesting level of the test.

Emitted when a test starts reporting its own and its subtests status. This
event is guaranteed to be emitted in the same order as the tests are defined.
The corresponding execution ordered event is `'test:dequeue'`.

#### Event: `'test:stderr'`#

  * `data` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `file` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The path of the test file.
    * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The message written to `stderr`.

Emitted when a running test writes to `stderr`. This event is only emitted if
`--test` flag is passed. This event is not guaranteed to be emitted in the
same order as the tests are defined.

#### Event: `'test:stdout'`#

  * `data` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `file` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The path of the test file.
    * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The message written to `stdout`.

Emitted when a running test writes to `stdout`. This event is only emitted if
`--test` flag is passed. This event is not guaranteed to be emitted in the
same order as the tests are defined.

#### Event: `'test:summary'`#

  * `data` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `counts` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An object containing the counts of various test results. 
      * `cancelled` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The total number of cancelled tests.
      * `failed` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The total number of failed tests.
      * `passed` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The total number of passed tests.
      * `skipped` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The total number of skipped tests.
      * `suites` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The total number of suites run.
      * `tests` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The total number of tests run, excluding suites.
      * `todo` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The total number of TODO tests.
      * `topLevel` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The total number of top level tests and suites.
    * `duration_ms` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The duration of the test run in milliseconds.
    * `file` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The path of the test file that generated the summary. If the summary corresponds to multiple files, this value is `undefined`.
    * `success` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Indicates whether or not the test run is considered successful or not. If any error condition occurs, such as a failing test or unmet coverage threshold, this value will be set to `false`.

Emitted when a test run completes. This event contains metrics pertaining to
the completed test run, and is useful for determining if a test run passed or
failed. If process-level test isolation is used, a `'test:summary'` event is
generated for each test file in addition to a final cumulative summary.

#### Event: `'test:watch:drained'`#

Emitted when no more tests are queued for execution in watch mode.

### Class: `TestContext`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.1.0, v18.17.0 | The `before` function was added to TestContext.  
v18.0.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.0.0, v16.17.0  
  
An instance of `TestContext` is passed to each test function in order to
interact with the test runner. However, the `TestContext` constructor is not
exposed as part of the API.

#### `context.before([fn][, options])`#

Added in: v20.1.0, v18.17.0

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) The hook function. The first argument to this function is a `TestContext` object. If the hook uses callbacks, the callback function is passed as the second argument. **Default:** A no-op function.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Configuration options for the hook. The following properties are supported: 
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Allows aborting an in-progress hook.
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A number of milliseconds the hook will fail after. If unspecified, subtests inherit this value from their parent. **Default:** `Infinity`.

This function is used to create a hook running before subtest of the current
test.

#### `context.beforeEach([fn][, options])`#

Added in: v18.8.0, v16.18.0

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) The hook function. The first argument to this function is a `TestContext` object. If the hook uses callbacks, the callback function is passed as the second argument. **Default:** A no-op function.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Configuration options for the hook. The following properties are supported: 
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Allows aborting an in-progress hook.
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A number of milliseconds the hook will fail after. If unspecified, subtests inherit this value from their parent. **Default:** `Infinity`.

This function is used to create a hook running before each subtest of the
current test.

    
    
    test('top level test', async (t) => {
      t.beforeEach((t) => t.diagnostic(`about to run ${t.name}`));
      await t.test(
        'This is a subtest',
        (t) => {
          assert.ok('some relevant assertion here');
        },
      );
    }); copy

#### `context.after([fn][, options])`#

Added in: v19.3.0, v18.13.0

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) The hook function. The first argument to this function is a `TestContext` object. If the hook uses callbacks, the callback function is passed as the second argument. **Default:** A no-op function.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Configuration options for the hook. The following properties are supported: 
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Allows aborting an in-progress hook.
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A number of milliseconds the hook will fail after. If unspecified, subtests inherit this value from their parent. **Default:** `Infinity`.

This function is used to create a hook that runs after the current test
finishes.

    
    
    test('top level test', async (t) => {
      t.after((t) => t.diagnostic(`finished running ${t.name}`));
      assert.ok('some relevant assertion here');
    }); copy

#### `context.afterEach([fn][, options])`#

Added in: v18.8.0, v16.18.0

  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) The hook function. The first argument to this function is a `TestContext` object. If the hook uses callbacks, the callback function is passed as the second argument. **Default:** A no-op function.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Configuration options for the hook. The following properties are supported: 
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Allows aborting an in-progress hook.
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A number of milliseconds the hook will fail after. If unspecified, subtests inherit this value from their parent. **Default:** `Infinity`.

This function is used to create a hook running after each subtest of the
current test.

    
    
    test('top level test', async (t) => {
      t.afterEach((t) => t.diagnostic(`finished running ${t.name}`));
      await t.test(
        'This is a subtest',
        (t) => {
          assert.ok('some relevant assertion here');
        },
      );
    }); copy

#### `context.assert`#

Added in: v22.2.0, v20.15.0

An object containing assertion methods bound to `context`. The top-level
functions from the `node:assert` module are exposed here for the purpose of
creating test plans.

    
    
    test('test', (t) => {
      t.plan(1);
      t.assert.strictEqual(true, true);
    }); copy

##### `context.assert.fileSnapshot(value, path[, options])`#

Added in: v23.7.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) A value to serialize to a string. If Node.js was started with the `--test-update-snapshots` flag, the serialized value is written to `path`. Otherwise, the serialized value is compared to the contents of the existing snapshot file.
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The file where the serialized `value` is written.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Optional configuration options. The following properties are supported: 
    * `serializers` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array of synchronous functions used to serialize `value` into a string. `value` is passed as the only argument to the first serializer function. The return value of each serializer is passed as input to the next serializer. Once all serializers have run, the resulting value is coerced to a string. **Default:** If no serializers are provided, the test runner's default serializers are used.

This function serializes `value` and writes it to the file specified by
`path`.

    
    
    test('snapshot test with default serialization', (t) => {
      t.assert.fileSnapshot({ value1: 1, value2: 2 }, './snapshots/snapshot.json');
    }); copy

This function differs from `context.assert.snapshot()` in the following ways:

  * The snapshot file path is explicitly provided by the user.
  * Each snapshot file is limited to a single snapshot value.
  * No additional escaping is performed by the test runner.

These differences allow snapshot files to better support features such as
syntax highlighting.

##### `context.assert.snapshot(value[, options])`#

Added in: v22.3.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) A value to serialize to a string. If Node.js was started with the `--test-update-snapshots` flag, the serialized value is written to the snapshot file. Otherwise, the serialized value is compared to the corresponding value in the existing snapshot file.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Optional configuration options. The following properties are supported: 
    * `serializers` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array of synchronous functions used to serialize `value` into a string. `value` is passed as the only argument to the first serializer function. The return value of each serializer is passed as input to the next serializer. Once all serializers have run, the resulting value is coerced to a string. **Default:** If no serializers are provided, the test runner's default serializers are used.

This function implements assertions for snapshot testing.

    
    
    test('snapshot test with default serialization', (t) => {
      t.assert.snapshot({ value1: 1, value2: 2 });
    });
    
    test('snapshot test with custom serialization', (t) => {
      t.assert.snapshot({ value3: 3, value4: 4 }, {
        serializers: [(value) => JSON.stringify(value)],
      });
    }); copy

#### `context.diagnostic(message)`#

Added in: v18.0.0, v16.17.0

  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Message to be reported.

This function is used to write diagnostics to the output. Any diagnostic
information is included at the end of the test's results. This function does
not return a value.

    
    
    test('top level test', (t) => {
      t.diagnostic('A diagnostic message');
    }); copy

#### `context.filePath`#

Added in: v22.6.0, v20.16.0

The absolute path of the test file that created the current test. If a test
file imports additional modules that generate tests, the imported tests will
return the path of the root test file.

#### `context.fullName`#

Added in: v22.3.0

The name of the test and each of its ancestors, separated by `>`.

#### `context.name`#

Added in: v18.8.0, v16.18.0

The name of the test.

#### `context.plan(count[,options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.9.0 | Add the `options` parameter.  
v23.4.0 | This function is no longer experimental.  
v22.2.0, v20.15.0 | Added in: v22.2.0, v20.15.0  
  
  * `count` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of assertions and subtests that are expected to run.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Additional options for the plan. 
    * `wait` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The wait time for the plan: 
      * If `true`, the plan waits indefinitely for all assertions and subtests to run.
      * If `false`, the plan performs an immediate check after the test function completes, without waiting for any pending assertions or subtests. Any assertions or subtests that complete after this check will not be counted towards the plan.
      * If a number, it specifies the maximum wait time in milliseconds before timing out while waiting for expected assertions and subtests to be matched. If the timeout is reached, the test will fail. **Default:** `false`.

This function is used to set the number of assertions and subtests that are
expected to run within the test. If the number of assertions and subtests that
run does not match the expected count, the test will fail.

> Note: To make sure assertions are tracked, `t.assert` must be used instead
> of `assert` directly.
    
    
    test('top level test', (t) => {
      t.plan(2);
      t.assert.ok('some relevant assertion here');
      t.test('subtest', () => {});
    }); copy

When working with asynchronous code, the `plan` function can be used to ensure
that the correct number of assertions are run:

    
    
    test('planning with streams', (t, done) => {
      function* generate() {
        yield 'a';
        yield 'b';
        yield 'c';
      }
      const expected = ['a', 'b', 'c'];
      t.plan(expected.length);
      const stream = Readable.from(generate());
      stream.on('data', (chunk) => {
        t.assert.strictEqual(chunk, expected.shift());
      });
    
      stream.on('end', () => {
        done();
      });
    }); copy

When using the `wait` option, you can control how long the test will wait for
the expected assertions. For example, setting a maximum wait time ensures that
the test will wait for asynchronous assertions to complete within the
specified timeframe:

    
    
    test('plan with wait: 2000 waits for async assertions', (t) => {
      t.plan(1, { wait: 2000 }); // Waits for up to 2 seconds for the assertion to complete.
    
      const asyncActivity = () => {
        setTimeout(() => {
          t.assert.ok(true, 'Async assertion completed within the wait time');
        }, 1000); // Completes after 1 second, within the 2-second wait time.
      };
    
      asyncActivity(); // The test will pass because the assertion is completed in time.
    }); copy

Note: If a `wait` timeout is specified, it begins counting down only after the
test function finishes executing.

#### `context.runOnly(shouldRunOnlyTests)`#

Added in: v18.0.0, v16.17.0

  * `shouldRunOnlyTests` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether or not to run `only` tests.

If `shouldRunOnlyTests` is truthy, the test context will only run tests that
have the `only` option set. Otherwise, all tests are run. If Node.js was not
started with the `--test-only` command-line option, this function is a no-op.

    
    
    test('top level test', (t) => {
      // The test context can be set to run subtests with the 'only' option.
      t.runOnly(true);
      return Promise.all([
        t.test('this subtest is now skipped'),
        t.test('this subtest is run', { only: true }),
      ]);
    }); copy

#### `context.signal`#

Added in: v18.7.0, v16.17.0

  * Type: <AbortSignal>

Can be used to abort test subtasks when the test has been aborted.

    
    
    test('top level test', async (t) => {
      await fetch('some/uri', { signal: t.signal });
    }); copy

#### `context.skip([message])`#

Added in: v18.0.0, v16.17.0

  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Optional skip message.

This function causes the test's output to indicate the test as skipped. If
`message` is provided, it is included in the output. Calling `skip()` does not
terminate execution of the test function. This function does not return a
value.

    
    
    test('top level test', (t) => {
      // Make sure to return here as well if the test contains additional logic.
      t.skip('this is skipped');
    }); copy

#### `context.todo([message])`#

Added in: v18.0.0, v16.17.0

  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Optional `TODO` message.

This function adds a `TODO` directive to the test's output. If `message` is
provided, it is included in the output. Calling `todo()` does not terminate
execution of the test function. This function does not return a value.

    
    
    test('top level test', (t) => {
      // This test is marked as `TODO`
      t.todo('this is a todo');
    }); copy

#### `context.test([name][, options][, fn])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.8.0, v16.18.0 | Add a `signal` option.  
v18.7.0, v16.17.0 | Add a `timeout` option.  
v18.0.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.0.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The name of the subtest, which is displayed when reporting test results. **Default:** The `name` property of `fn`, or `'<anonymous>'` if `fn` does not have a name.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Configuration options for the subtest. The following properties are supported: 
    * `concurrency` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) If a number is provided, then that many tests would run in parallel within the application thread. If `true`, it would run all subtests in parallel. If `false`, it would only run one test at a time. If unspecified, subtests inherit this value from their parent. **Default:** `null`.
    * `only` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If truthy, and the test context is configured to run `only` tests, then this test will be run. Otherwise, the test is skipped. **Default:** `false`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Allows aborting an in-progress test.
    * `skip` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If truthy, the test is skipped. If a string is provided, that string is displayed in the test results as the reason for skipping the test. **Default:** `false`.
    * `todo` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If truthy, the test marked as `TODO`. If a string is provided, that string is displayed in the test results as the reason why the test is `TODO`. **Default:** `false`.
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A number of milliseconds the test will fail after. If unspecified, subtests inherit this value from their parent. **Default:** `Infinity`.
    * `plan` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of assertions and subtests expected to be run in the test. If the number of assertions run in the test does not match the number specified in the plan, the test will fail. **Default:** `undefined`.
  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) The function under test. The first argument to this function is a `TestContext` object. If the test uses callbacks, the callback function is passed as the second argument. **Default:** A no-op function.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfilled with `undefined` once the test completes.

This function is used to create subtests under the current test. This function
behaves in the same fashion as the top level `test()` function.

    
    
    test('top level test', async (t) => {
      await t.test(
        'This is a subtest',
        { only: false, skip: false, concurrency: 1, todo: false, plan: 1 },
        (t) => {
          t.assert.ok('some relevant assertion here');
        },
      );
    }); copy

#### `context.waitFor(condition[, options])`#

Added in: v23.7.0

  * `condition` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | [<AsyncFunction>](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-async-function-constructor) An assertion function that is invoked periodically until it completes successfully or the defined polling timeout elapses. Successful completion is defined as not throwing or rejecting. This function does not accept any arguments, and is allowed to return any value.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An optional configuration object for the polling operation. The following properties are supported: 
    * `interval` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds to wait after an unsuccessful invocation of `condition` before trying again. **Default:** `50`.
    * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The poll timeout in milliseconds. If `condition` has not succeeded by the time this elapses, an error occurs. **Default:** `1000`.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfilled with the value returned by `condition`.

This method polls a `condition` function until that function either returns
successfully or the operation times out.

### Class: `SuiteContext`#

Added in: v18.7.0, v16.17.0

An instance of `SuiteContext` is passed to each suite function in order to
interact with the test runner. However, the `SuiteContext` constructor is not
exposed as part of the API.

#### `context.filePath`#

Added in: v22.6.0

The absolute path of the test file that created the current suite. If a test
file imports additional modules that generate suites, the imported suites will
return the path of the root test file.

#### `context.name`#

Added in: v18.8.0, v16.18.0

The name of the suite.

#### `context.signal`#

Added in: v18.7.0, v16.17.0

  * Type: <AbortSignal>

Can be used to abort test subtasks when the test has been aborted.

## Timers#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/timers.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/timers.js)

The `timer` module exposes a global API for scheduling functions to be called
at some future period of time. Because the timer functions are globals, there
is no need to call `require('node:timers')` to use the API.

The timer functions within Node.js implement a similar API as the timers API
provided by Web Browsers but use a different internal implementation that is
built around the Node.js [Event Loop](https://nodejs.org/en/docs/guides/event-
loop-timers-and-nexttick/#setimmediate-vs-settimeout).

### Class: `Immediate`#

This object is created internally and is returned from `setImmediate()`. It
can be passed to `clearImmediate()` in order to cancel the scheduled actions.

By default, when an immediate is scheduled, the Node.js event loop will
continue running as long as the immediate is active. The `Immediate` object
returned by `setImmediate()` exports both `immediate.ref()` and
`immediate.unref()` functions that can be used to control this default
behavior.

#### `immediate.hasRef()`#

Added in: v11.0.0

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

If true, the `Immediate` object will keep the Node.js event loop active.

#### `immediate.ref()`#

Added in: v9.7.0

  * Returns: <Immediate> a reference to `immediate`

When called, requests that the Node.js event loop _not_ exit so long as the
`Immediate` is active. Calling `immediate.ref()` multiple times will have no
effect.

By default, all `Immediate` objects are "ref'ed", making it normally
unnecessary to call `immediate.ref()` unless `immediate.unref()` had been
called previously.

#### `immediate.unref()`#

Added in: v9.7.0

  * Returns: <Immediate> a reference to `immediate`

When called, the active `Immediate` object will not require the Node.js event
loop to remain active. If there is no other activity keeping the event loop
running, the process may exit before the `Immediate` object's callback is
invoked. Calling `immediate.unref()` multiple times will have no effect.

#### `immediate[Symbol.dispose]()`#

Added in: v20.5.0, v18.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Cancels the immediate. This is similar to calling `clearImmediate()`.

### Class: `Timeout`#

This object is created internally and is returned from `setTimeout()` and
`setInterval()`. It can be passed to either `clearTimeout()` or
`clearInterval()` in order to cancel the scheduled actions.

By default, when a timer is scheduled using either `setTimeout()` or
`setInterval()`, the Node.js event loop will continue running as long as the
timer is active. Each of the `Timeout` objects returned by these functions
export both `timeout.ref()` and `timeout.unref()` functions that can be used
to control this default behavior.

#### `timeout.close()`#

Added in: v0.9.1

Stability: 3 \- Legacy: Use `clearTimeout()` instead.

  * Returns: <Timeout> a reference to `timeout`

Cancels the timeout.

#### `timeout.hasRef()`#

Added in: v11.0.0

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

If true, the `Timeout` object will keep the Node.js event loop active.

#### `timeout.ref()`#

Added in: v0.9.1

  * Returns: <Timeout> a reference to `timeout`

When called, requests that the Node.js event loop _not_ exit so long as the
`Timeout` is active. Calling `timeout.ref()` multiple times will have no
effect.

By default, all `Timeout` objects are "ref'ed", making it normally unnecessary
to call `timeout.ref()` unless `timeout.unref()` had been called previously.

#### `timeout.refresh()`#

Added in: v10.2.0

  * Returns: <Timeout> a reference to `timeout`

Sets the timer's start time to the current time, and reschedules the timer to
call its callback at the previously specified duration adjusted to the current
time. This is useful for refreshing a timer without allocating a new
JavaScript object.

Using this on a timer that has already called its callback will reactivate the
timer.

#### `timeout.unref()`#

Added in: v0.9.1

  * Returns: <Timeout> a reference to `timeout`

When called, the active `Timeout` object will not require the Node.js event
loop to remain active. If there is no other activity keeping the event loop
running, the process may exit before the `Timeout` object's callback is
invoked. Calling `timeout.unref()` multiple times will have no effect.

#### `timeout[Symbol.toPrimitive]()`#

Added in: v14.9.0, v12.19.0

  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) a number that can be used to reference this `timeout`

Coerce a `Timeout` to a primitive. The primitive can be used to clear the
`Timeout`. The primitive can only be used in the same thread where the timeout
was created. Therefore, to use it across
[`worker_threads`](worker_threads.html) it must first be passed to the correct
thread. This allows enhanced compatibility with browser `setTimeout()` and
`setInterval()` implementations.

#### `timeout[Symbol.dispose]()`#

Added in: v20.5.0, v18.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Cancels the timeout.

### Scheduling timers#

A timer in Node.js is an internal construct that calls a given function after
a certain period of time. When a timer's function is called varies depending
on which method was used to create the timer and what other work the Node.js
event loop is doing.

#### `setImmediate(callback[, ...args])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v0.9.1 | Added in: v0.9.1  
  
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The function to call at the end of this turn of the Node.js [Event Loop](https://nodejs.org/en/docs/guides/event-loop-timers-and-nexttick/#setimmediate-vs-settimeout)
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Optional arguments to pass when the `callback` is called.
  * Returns: <Immediate> for use with `clearImmediate()`

Schedules the "immediate" execution of the `callback` after I/O events'
callbacks.

When multiple calls to `setImmediate()` are made, the `callback` functions are
queued for execution in the order in which they are created. The entire
callback queue is processed every event loop iteration. If an immediate timer
is queued from inside an executing callback, that timer will not be triggered
until the next event loop iteration.

If `callback` is not a function, a `TypeError` will be thrown.

This method has a custom variant for promises that is available using
`timersPromises.setImmediate()`.

#### `setInterval(callback[, delay[, ...args]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v0.0.1 | Added in: v0.0.1  
  
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The function to call when the timer elapses.
  * `delay` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds to wait before calling the `callback`. **Default:** `1`.
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Optional arguments to pass when the `callback` is called.
  * Returns: <Timeout> for use with `clearInterval()`

Schedules repeated execution of `callback` every `delay` milliseconds.

When `delay` is larger than `2147483647` or less than `1` or `NaN`, the
`delay` will be set to `1`. Non-integer delays are truncated to an integer.

If `callback` is not a function, a `TypeError` will be thrown.

This method has a custom variant for promises that is available using
`timersPromises.setInterval()`.

#### `setTimeout(callback[, delay[, ...args]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v0.0.1 | Added in: v0.0.1  
  
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The function to call when the timer elapses.
  * `delay` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds to wait before calling the `callback`. **Default:** `1`.
  * `...args` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Optional arguments to pass when the `callback` is called.
  * Returns: <Timeout> for use with `clearTimeout()`

Schedules execution of a one-time `callback` after `delay` milliseconds.

The `callback` will likely not be invoked in precisely `delay` milliseconds.
Node.js makes no guarantees about the exact timing of when callbacks will
fire, nor of their ordering. The callback will be called as close as possible
to the time specified.

When `delay` is larger than `2147483647` or less than `1` or `NaN`, the
`delay` will be set to `1`. Non-integer delays are truncated to an integer.

If `callback` is not a function, a `TypeError` will be thrown.

This method has a custom variant for promises that is available using
`timersPromises.setTimeout()`.

### Cancelling timers#

The `setImmediate()`, `setInterval()`, and `setTimeout()` methods each return
objects that represent the scheduled timers. These can be used to cancel the
timer and prevent it from triggering.

For the promisified variants of `setImmediate()` and `setTimeout()`, an
`AbortController` may be used to cancel the timer. When canceled, the returned
Promises will be rejected with an `'AbortError'`.

For `setImmediate()`:

    
    
    import { setImmediate as setImmediatePromise } from 'node:timers/promises';
    
    const ac = new AbortController();
    const signal = ac.signal;
    
    // We do not `await` the promise so `ac.abort()` is called concurrently.
    setImmediatePromise('foobar', { signal })
      .then(console.log)
      .catch((err) => {
        if (err.name === 'AbortError')
          console.error('The immediate was aborted');
      });
    
    ac.abort();const { setImmediate: setImmediatePromise } = require('node:timers/promises');
    
    const ac = new AbortController();
    const signal = ac.signal;
    
    setImmediatePromise('foobar', { signal })
      .then(console.log)
      .catch((err) => {
        if (err.name === 'AbortError')
          console.error('The immediate was aborted');
      });
    
    ac.abort();copy

For `setTimeout()`:

    
    
    import { setTimeout as setTimeoutPromise } from 'node:timers/promises';
    
    const ac = new AbortController();
    const signal = ac.signal;
    
    // We do not `await` the promise so `ac.abort()` is called concurrently.
    setTimeoutPromise(1000, 'foobar', { signal })
      .then(console.log)
      .catch((err) => {
        if (err.name === 'AbortError')
          console.error('The timeout was aborted');
      });
    
    ac.abort();const { setTimeout: setTimeoutPromise } = require('node:timers/promises');
    
    const ac = new AbortController();
    const signal = ac.signal;
    
    setTimeoutPromise(1000, 'foobar', { signal })
      .then(console.log)
      .catch((err) => {
        if (err.name === 'AbortError')
          console.error('The timeout was aborted');
      });
    
    ac.abort();copy

#### `clearImmediate(immediate)`#

Added in: v0.9.1

  * `immediate` <Immediate> An `Immediate` object as returned by `setImmediate()`.

Cancels an `Immediate` object created by `setImmediate()`.

#### `clearInterval(timeout)`#

Added in: v0.0.1

  * `timeout` <Timeout> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A `Timeout` object as returned by `setInterval()` or the primitive of the `Timeout` object as a string or a number.

Cancels a `Timeout` object created by `setInterval()`.

#### `clearTimeout(timeout)`#

Added in: v0.0.1

  * `timeout` <Timeout> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A `Timeout` object as returned by `setTimeout()` or the primitive of the `Timeout` object as a string or a number.

Cancels a `Timeout` object created by `setTimeout()`.

### Timers Promises API#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.0.0 | Graduated from experimental.  
v15.0.0 | Added in: v15.0.0  
  
The `timers/promises` API provides an alternative set of timer functions that
return `Promise` objects. The API is accessible via
`require('node:timers/promises')`.

    
    
    import {
      setTimeout,
      setImmediate,
      setInterval,
    } from 'node:timers/promises';const {
      setTimeout,
      setImmediate,
      setInterval,
    } = require('node:timers/promises');copy

#### `timersPromises.setTimeout([delay[, value[, options]]])`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * `delay` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds to wait before fulfilling the promise. **Default:** `1`.
  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) A value with which the promise is fulfilled.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `ref` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Set to `false` to indicate that the scheduled `Timeout` should not require the Node.js event loop to remain active. **Default:** `true`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> An optional `AbortSignal` that can be used to cancel the scheduled `Timeout`.

    
    
    import {
      setTimeout,
    } from 'node:timers/promises';
    
    const res = await setTimeout(100, 'result');
    
    console.log(res);  // Prints 'result'const {
      setTimeout,
    } = require('node:timers/promises');
    
    setTimeout(100, 'result').then((res) => {
      console.log(res);  // Prints 'result'
    });copy

#### `timersPromises.setImmediate([value[, options]])`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) A value with which the promise is fulfilled.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `ref` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Set to `false` to indicate that the scheduled `Immediate` should not require the Node.js event loop to remain active. **Default:** `true`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> An optional `AbortSignal` that can be used to cancel the scheduled `Immediate`.

    
    
    import {
      setImmediate,
    } from 'node:timers/promises';
    
    const res = await setImmediate('result');
    
    console.log(res);  // Prints 'result'const {
      setImmediate,
    } = require('node:timers/promises');
    
    setImmediate('result').then((res) => {
      console.log(res);  // Prints 'result'
    });copy

#### `timersPromises.setInterval([delay[, value[, options]]])`#

Added in: v15.9.0

Returns an async iterator that generates values in an interval of `delay` ms.
If `ref` is `true`, you need to call `next()` of async iterator explicitly or
implicitly to keep the event loop alive.

  * `delay` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds to wait between iterations. **Default:** `1`.
  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) A value with which the iterator returns.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `ref` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Set to `false` to indicate that the scheduled `Timeout` between iterations should not require the Node.js event loop to remain active. **Default:** `true`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> An optional `AbortSignal` that can be used to cancel the scheduled `Timeout` between operations.

    
    
    import {
      setInterval,
    } from 'node:timers/promises';
    
    const interval = 100;
    for await (const startTime of setInterval(interval, Date.now())) {
      const now = Date.now();
      console.log(now);
      if ((now - startTime) > 1000)
        break;
    }
    console.log(Date.now());const {
      setInterval,
    } = require('node:timers/promises');
    const interval = 100;
    
    (async function() {
      for await (const startTime of setInterval(interval, Date.now())) {
        const now = Date.now();
        console.log(now);
        if ((now - startTime) > 1000)
          break;
      }
      console.log(Date.now());
    })();copy

#### `timersPromises.scheduler.wait(delay[, options])`#

Added in: v17.3.0, v16.14.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `delay` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of milliseconds to wait before resolving the promise.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `ref` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Set to `false` to indicate that the scheduled `Timeout` should not require the Node.js event loop to remain active. **Default:** `true`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> An optional `AbortSignal` that can be used to cancel waiting.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

An experimental API defined by the [Scheduling
APIs](https://github.com/WICG/scheduling-apis) draft specification being
developed as a standard Web Platform API.

Calling `timersPromises.scheduler.wait(delay, options)` is equivalent to
calling `timersPromises.setTimeout(delay, undefined, options)`.

    
    
    import { scheduler } from 'node:timers/promises';
    
    await scheduler.wait(1000); // Wait one second before continuing copy

#### `timersPromises.scheduler.yield()`#

Added in: v17.3.0, v16.14.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

An experimental API defined by the [Scheduling
APIs](https://github.com/WICG/scheduling-apis) draft specification being
developed as a standard Web Platform API.

Calling `timersPromises.scheduler.yield()` is equivalent to calling
`timersPromises.setImmediate()` with no arguments.

## TLS (SSL)#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/tls.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/tls.js)

The `node:tls` module provides an implementation of the Transport Layer
Security (TLS) and Secure Socket Layer (SSL) protocols that is built on top of
OpenSSL. The module can be accessed using:

    
    
    import tls from 'node:tls';const tls = require('node:tls');copy

### Determining if crypto support is unavailable#

It is possible for Node.js to be built without including support for the
`node:crypto` module. In such cases, attempting to `import` from `tls` or
calling `require('node:tls')` will result in an error being thrown.

When using CommonJS, the error thrown can be caught using try/catch:

    
    
    let tls;
    try {
      tls = require('node:tls');
    } catch (err) {
      console.error('tls support is disabled!');
    } copy

When using the lexical ESM `import` keyword, the error can only be caught if a
handler for `process.on('uncaughtException')` is registered _before_ any
attempt to load the module is made (using, for instance, a preload module).

When using ESM, if there is a chance that the code may be run on a build of
Node.js where crypto support is not enabled, consider using the
[`import()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/import) function instead of the
lexical `import` keyword:

    
    
    let tls;
    try {
      tls = await import('node:tls');
    } catch (err) {
      console.error('tls support is disabled!');
    } copy

### TLS/SSL concepts#

TLS/SSL is a set of protocols that rely on a public key infrastructure (PKI)
to enable secure communication between a client and a server. For most common
cases, each server must have a private key.

Private keys can be generated in multiple ways. The example below illustrates
use of the OpenSSL command-line interface to generate a 2048-bit RSA private
key:

    
    
    openssl genrsa -out ryans-key.pem 2048 copy

With TLS/SSL, all servers (and some clients) must have a _certificate_.
Certificates are _public keys_ that correspond to a private key, and that are
digitally signed either by a Certificate Authority or by the owner of the
private key (such certificates are referred to as "self-signed"). The first
step to obtaining a certificate is to create a _Certificate Signing Request_
(CSR) file.

The OpenSSL command-line interface can be used to generate a CSR for a private
key:

    
    
    openssl req -new -sha256 -key ryans-key.pem -out ryans-csr.pem copy

Once the CSR file is generated, it can either be sent to a Certificate
Authority for signing or used to generate a self-signed certificate.

Creating a self-signed certificate using the OpenSSL command-line interface is
illustrated in the example below:

    
    
    openssl x509 -req -in ryans-csr.pem -signkey ryans-key.pem -out ryans-cert.pem copy

Once the certificate is generated, it can be used to generate a `.pfx` or
`.p12` file:

    
    
    openssl pkcs12 -export -in ryans-cert.pem -inkey ryans-key.pem \
          -certfile ca-cert.pem -out ryans.pfx copy

Where:

  * `in`: is the signed certificate
  * `inkey`: is the associated private key
  * `certfile`: is a concatenation of all Certificate Authority (CA) certs into a single file, e.g. `cat ca1-cert.pem ca2-cert.pem > ca-cert.pem`

#### Perfect forward secrecy#

The term _[forward
secrecy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perfect_forward_secrecy)_ or _perfect
forward secrecy_ describes a feature of key-agreement (i.e., key-exchange)
methods. That is, the server and client keys are used to negotiate new
temporary keys that are used specifically and only for the current
communication session. Practically, this means that even if the server's
private key is compromised, communication can only be decrypted by
eavesdroppers if the attacker manages to obtain the key-pair specifically
generated for the session.

Perfect forward secrecy is achieved by randomly generating a key pair for key-
agreement on every TLS/SSL handshake (in contrast to using the same key for
all sessions). Methods implementing this technique are called "ephemeral".

Currently two methods are commonly used to achieve perfect forward secrecy
(note the character "E" appended to the traditional abbreviations):

  * [ECDHE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic_curve_Diffie%E2%80%93Hellman): An ephemeral version of the Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman key-agreement protocol.
  * [DHE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diffie%E2%80%93Hellman_key_exchange): An ephemeral version of the Diffie-Hellman key-agreement protocol.

Perfect forward secrecy using ECDHE is enabled by default. The `ecdhCurve`
option can be used when creating a TLS server to customize the list of
supported ECDH curves to use. See `tls.createServer()` for more info.

DHE is disabled by default but can be enabled alongside ECDHE by setting the
`dhparam` option to `'auto'`. Custom DHE parameters are also supported but
discouraged in favor of automatically selected, well-known parameters.

Perfect forward secrecy was optional up to TLSv1.2. As of TLSv1.3, (EC)DHE is
always used (with the exception of PSK-only connections).

#### ALPN and SNI#

ALPN (Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation Extension) and SNI (Server Name
Indication) are TLS handshake extensions:

  * ALPN: Allows the use of one TLS server for multiple protocols (HTTP, HTTP/2)
  * SNI: Allows the use of one TLS server for multiple hostnames with different certificates.

#### Pre-shared keys#

TLS-PSK support is available as an alternative to normal certificate-based
authentication. It uses a pre-shared key instead of certificates to
authenticate a TLS connection, providing mutual authentication. TLS-PSK and
public key infrastructure are not mutually exclusive. Clients and servers can
accommodate both, choosing either of them during the normal cipher negotiation
step.

TLS-PSK is only a good choice where means exist to securely share a key with
every connecting machine, so it does not replace the public key infrastructure
(PKI) for the majority of TLS uses. The TLS-PSK implementation in OpenSSL has
seen many security flaws in recent years, mostly because it is used only by a
minority of applications. Please consider all alternative solutions before
switching to PSK ciphers. Upon generating PSK it is of critical importance to
use sufficient entropy as discussed in [RFC
4086](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4086). Deriving a shared secret from a
password or other low-entropy sources is not secure.

PSK ciphers are disabled by default, and using TLS-PSK thus requires
explicitly specifying a cipher suite with the `ciphers` option. The list of
available ciphers can be retrieved via `openssl ciphers -v 'PSK'`. All TLS 1.3
ciphers are eligible for PSK and can be retrieved via `openssl ciphers -v -s
-tls1_3 -psk`. On the client connection, a custom `checkServerIdentity` should
be passed because the default one will fail in the absence of a certificate.

According to the [RFC 4279](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4279), PSK
identities up to 128 bytes in length and PSKs up to 64 bytes in length must be
supported. As of OpenSSL 1.1.0 maximum identity size is 128 bytes, and maximum
PSK length is 256 bytes.

The current implementation doesn't support asynchronous PSK callbacks due to
the limitations of the underlying OpenSSL API.

To use TLS-PSK, client and server must specify the `pskCallback` option, a
function that returns the PSK to use (which must be compatible with the
selected cipher's digest).

It will be called first on the client:

  * hint: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) optional message sent from the server to help the client decide which identity to use during negotiation. Always `null` if TLS 1.3 is used.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) in the form `{ psk: <Buffer|TypedArray|DataView>, identity: <string> }` or `null`.

Then on the server:

  * socket: <tls.TLSSocket> the server socket instance, equivalent to `this`.
  * identity: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) identity parameter sent from the client.
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) the PSK (or `null`).

A return value of `null` stops the negotiation process and sends an
`unknown_psk_identity` alert message to the other party. If the server wishes
to hide the fact that the PSK identity was not known, the callback must
provide some random data as `psk` to make the connection fail with
`decrypt_error` before negotiation is finished.

#### Client-initiated renegotiation attack mitigation#

The TLS protocol allows clients to renegotiate certain aspects of the TLS
session. Unfortunately, session renegotiation requires a disproportionate
amount of server-side resources, making it a potential vector for denial-of-
service attacks.

To mitigate the risk, renegotiation is limited to three times every ten
minutes. An `'error'` event is emitted on the `tls.TLSSocket` instance when
this threshold is exceeded. The limits are configurable:

  * `tls.CLIENT_RENEG_LIMIT` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the number of renegotiation requests. **Default:** `3`.
  * `tls.CLIENT_RENEG_WINDOW` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the time renegotiation window in seconds. **Default:** `600` (10 minutes).

The default renegotiation limits should not be modified without a full
understanding of the implications and risks.

TLSv1.3 does not support renegotiation.

#### Session resumption#

Establishing a TLS session can be relatively slow. The process can be sped up
by saving and later reusing the session state. There are several mechanisms to
do so, discussed here from oldest to newest (and preferred).

##### Session identifiers#

Servers generate a unique ID for new connections and send it to the client.
Clients and servers save the session state. When reconnecting, clients send
the ID of their saved session state and if the server also has the state for
that ID, it can agree to use it. Otherwise, the server will create a new
session. See [RFC 2246](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2246.txt) for more
information, page 23 and 30.

Resumption using session identifiers is supported by most web browsers when
making HTTPS requests.

For Node.js, clients wait for the `'session'` event to get the session data,
and provide the data to the `session` option of a subsequent `tls.connect()`
to reuse the session. Servers must implement handlers for the `'newSession'`
and `'resumeSession'` events to save and restore the session data using the
session ID as the lookup key to reuse sessions. To reuse sessions across load
balancers or cluster workers, servers must use a shared session cache (such as
Redis) in their session handlers.

##### Session tickets#

The servers encrypt the entire session state and send it to the client as a
"ticket". When reconnecting, the state is sent to the server in the initial
connection. This mechanism avoids the need for a server-side session cache. If
the server doesn't use the ticket, for any reason (failure to decrypt it, it's
too old, etc.), it will create a new session and send a new ticket. See [RFC
5077](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5077) for more information.

Resumption using session tickets is becoming commonly supported by many web
browsers when making HTTPS requests.

For Node.js, clients use the same APIs for resumption with session identifiers
as for resumption with session tickets. For debugging, if
`tls.TLSSocket.getTLSTicket()` returns a value, the session data contains a
ticket, otherwise it contains client-side session state.

With TLSv1.3, be aware that multiple tickets may be sent by the server,
resulting in multiple `'session'` events, see `'session'` for more
information.

Single process servers need no specific implementation to use session tickets.
To use session tickets across server restarts or load balancers, servers must
all have the same ticket keys. There are three 16-byte keys internally, but
the tls API exposes them as a single 48-byte buffer for convenience.

It's possible to get the ticket keys by calling `server.getTicketKeys()` on
one server instance and then distribute them, but it is more reasonable to
securely generate 48 bytes of secure random data and set them with the
`ticketKeys` option of `tls.createServer()`. The keys should be regularly
regenerated and server's keys can be reset with `server.setTicketKeys()`.

Session ticket keys are cryptographic keys, and they _**must be stored
securely**_. With TLS 1.2 and below, if they are compromised all sessions that
used tickets encrypted with them can be decrypted. They should not be stored
on disk, and they should be regenerated regularly.

If clients advertise support for tickets, the server will send them. The
server can disable tickets by supplying
`require('node:constants').SSL_OP_NO_TICKET` in `secureOptions`.

Both session identifiers and session tickets timeout, causing the server to
create new sessions. The timeout can be configured with the `sessionTimeout`
option of `tls.createServer()`.

For all the mechanisms, when resumption fails, servers will create new
sessions. Since failing to resume the session does not cause TLS/HTTPS
connection failures, it is easy to not notice unnecessarily poor TLS
performance. The OpenSSL CLI can be used to verify that servers are resuming
sessions. Use the `-reconnect` option to `openssl s_client`, for example:

    
    
    openssl s_client -connect localhost:443 -reconnect copy

Read through the debug output. The first connection should say "New", for
example:

    
    
    New, TLSv1.2, Cipher is ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256 copy

Subsequent connections should say "Reused", for example:

    
    
    Reused, TLSv1.2, Cipher is ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256 copy

### Modifying the default TLS cipher suite#

Node.js is built with a default suite of enabled and disabled TLS ciphers.
This default cipher list can be configured when building Node.js to allow
distributions to provide their own default list.

The following command can be used to show the default cipher suite:

    
    
    node -p crypto.constants.defaultCoreCipherList | tr ':' '\n'
    TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
    TLS_CHACHA20_POLY1305_SHA256
    TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
    ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256
    ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256
    ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384
    ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384
    DHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256
    ECDHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256
    DHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256
    ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA384
    DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA384
    ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA256
    DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA256
    HIGH
    !aNULL
    !eNULL
    !EXPORT
    !DES
    !RC4
    !MD5
    !PSK
    !SRP
    !CAMELLIA copy

This default can be replaced entirely using the `--tls-cipher-list` command-
line switch (directly, or via the `NODE_OPTIONS` environment variable). For
instance, the following makes `ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:!RC4` the default
TLS cipher suite:

    
    
    node --tls-cipher-list='ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:!RC4' server.js
    
    export NODE_OPTIONS=--tls-cipher-list='ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:!RC4'
    node server.js copy

To verify, use the following command to show the set cipher list, note the
difference between `defaultCoreCipherList` and `defaultCipherList`:

    
    
    node --tls-cipher-list='ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:!RC4' -p crypto.constants.defaultCipherList | tr ':' '\n'
    ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256
    !RC4 copy

i.e. the `defaultCoreCipherList` list is set at compilation time and the
`defaultCipherList` is set at runtime.

To modify the default cipher suites from within the runtime, modify the
`tls.DEFAULT_CIPHERS` variable, this must be performed before listening on any
sockets, it will not affect sockets already opened. For example:

    
    
    // Remove Obsolete CBC Ciphers and RSA Key Exchange based Ciphers as they don't provide Forward Secrecy
    tls.DEFAULT_CIPHERS +=
      ':!ECDHE-RSA-AES128-SHA:!ECDHE-RSA-AES128-SHA256:!ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA:!ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA384' +
      ':!ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-SHA:!ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-SHA256:!ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-SHA:!ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-SHA384' +
      ':!kRSA'; copy

The default can also be replaced on a per client or server basis using the
`ciphers` option from `tls.createSecureContext()`, which is also available in
`tls.createServer()`, `tls.connect()`, and when creating new `tls.TLSSocket`s.

The ciphers list can contain a mixture of TLSv1.3 cipher suite names, the ones
that start with `'TLS_'`, and specifications for TLSv1.2 and below cipher
suites. The TLSv1.2 ciphers support a legacy specification format, consult the
OpenSSL [cipher list
format](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man1/ciphers.html#CIPHER-LIST-
FORMAT) documentation for details, but those specifications do _not_ apply to
TLSv1.3 ciphers. The TLSv1.3 suites can only be enabled by including their
full name in the cipher list. They cannot, for example, be enabled or disabled
by using the legacy TLSv1.2 `'EECDH'` or `'!EECDH'` specification.

Despite the relative order of TLSv1.3 and TLSv1.2 cipher suites, the TLSv1.3
protocol is significantly more secure than TLSv1.2, and will always be chosen
over TLSv1.2 if the handshake indicates it is supported, and if any TLSv1.3
cipher suites are enabled.

The default cipher suite included within Node.js has been carefully selected
to reflect current security best practices and risk mitigation. Changing the
default cipher suite can have a significant impact on the security of an
application. The `--tls-cipher-list` switch and `ciphers` option should by
used only if absolutely necessary.

The default cipher suite prefers GCM ciphers for [Chrome's 'modern
cryptography' setting](https://www.chromium.org/Home/chromium-
security/education/tls#TOC-Cipher-Suites) and also prefers ECDHE and DHE
ciphers for perfect forward secrecy, while offering _some_ backward
compatibility.

Old clients that rely on insecure and deprecated RC4 or DES-based ciphers
(like Internet Explorer 6) cannot complete the handshaking process with the
default configuration. If these clients _must_ be supported, the [TLS
recommendations](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Security/Server_Side_TLS) may offer
a compatible cipher suite. For more details on the format, see the OpenSSL
[cipher list
format](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man1/ciphers.html#CIPHER-LIST-
FORMAT) documentation.

There are only five TLSv1.3 cipher suites:

  * `'TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384'`
  * `'TLS_CHACHA20_POLY1305_SHA256'`
  * `'TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256'`
  * `'TLS_AES_128_CCM_SHA256'`
  * `'TLS_AES_128_CCM_8_SHA256'`

The first three are enabled by default. The two `CCM`-based suites are
supported by TLSv1.3 because they may be more performant on constrained
systems, but they are not enabled by default since they offer less security.

### OpenSSL security level#

The OpenSSL library enforces security levels to control the minimum acceptable
level of security for cryptographic operations. OpenSSL's security levels
range from 0 to 5, with each level imposing stricter security requirements.
The default security level is 1, which is generally suitable for most modern
applications. However, some legacy features and protocols, such as TLSv1,
require a lower security level (`SECLEVEL=0`) to function properly. For more
detailed information, please refer to the [OpenSSL documentation on security
levels](https://www.openssl.org/docs/manmaster/man3/SSL_CTX_set_security_level.html#DEFAULT-
CALLBACK-BEHAVIOUR).

#### Setting security levels#

To adjust the security level in your Node.js application, you can include
`@SECLEVEL=X` within a cipher string, where `X` is the desired security level.
For example, to set the security level to 0 while using the default OpenSSL
cipher list, you could use:

    
    
    import { createServer, connect } from 'node:tls';
    const port = 443;
    
    createServer({ ciphers: 'DEFAULT@SECLEVEL=0', minVersion: 'TLSv1' }, function(socket) {
      console.log('Client connected with protocol:', socket.getProtocol());
      socket.end();
      this.close();
    })
    .listen(port, () => {
      connect(port, { ciphers: 'DEFAULT@SECLEVEL=0', maxVersion: 'TLSv1' });
    });const { createServer, connect } = require('node:tls');
    const port = 443;
    
    createServer({ ciphers: 'DEFAULT@SECLEVEL=0', minVersion: 'TLSv1' }, function(socket) {
      console.log('Client connected with protocol:', socket.getProtocol());
      socket.end();
      this.close();
    })
    .listen(port, () => {
      connect(port, { ciphers: 'DEFAULT@SECLEVEL=0', maxVersion: 'TLSv1' });
    });copy

This approach sets the security level to 0, allowing the use of legacy
features while still leveraging the default OpenSSL ciphers.

#### Using `--tls-cipher-list`#

You can also set the security level and ciphers from the command line using
the `--tls-cipher-list=DEFAULT@SECLEVEL=X` as described in Modifying the
default TLS cipher suite. However, it is generally discouraged to use the
command line option for setting ciphers and it is preferable to configure the
ciphers for individual contexts within your application code, as this approach
provides finer control and reduces the risk of globally downgrading the
security level.

### X509 certificate error codes#

Multiple functions can fail due to certificate errors that are reported by
OpenSSL. In such a case, the function provides an
[<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) via its callback that
has the property `code` which can take one of the following values:

  * `'UNABLE_TO_GET_ISSUER_CERT'`: Unable to get issuer certificate.
  * `'UNABLE_TO_GET_CRL'`: Unable to get certificate CRL.
  * `'UNABLE_TO_DECRYPT_CERT_SIGNATURE'`: Unable to decrypt certificate's signature.
  * `'UNABLE_TO_DECRYPT_CRL_SIGNATURE'`: Unable to decrypt CRL's signature.
  * `'UNABLE_TO_DECODE_ISSUER_PUBLIC_KEY'`: Unable to decode issuer public key.
  * `'CERT_SIGNATURE_FAILURE'`: Certificate signature failure.
  * `'CRL_SIGNATURE_FAILURE'`: CRL signature failure.
  * `'CERT_NOT_YET_VALID'`: Certificate is not yet valid.
  * `'CERT_HAS_EXPIRED'`: Certificate has expired.
  * `'CRL_NOT_YET_VALID'`: CRL is not yet valid.
  * `'CRL_HAS_EXPIRED'`: CRL has expired.
  * `'ERROR_IN_CERT_NOT_BEFORE_FIELD'`: Format error in certificate's notBefore field.
  * `'ERROR_IN_CERT_NOT_AFTER_FIELD'`: Format error in certificate's notAfter field.
  * `'ERROR_IN_CRL_LAST_UPDATE_FIELD'`: Format error in CRL's lastUpdate field.
  * `'ERROR_IN_CRL_NEXT_UPDATE_FIELD'`: Format error in CRL's nextUpdate field.
  * `'OUT_OF_MEM'`: Out of memory.
  * `'DEPTH_ZERO_SELF_SIGNED_CERT'`: Self signed certificate.
  * `'SELF_SIGNED_CERT_IN_CHAIN'`: Self signed certificate in certificate chain.
  * `'UNABLE_TO_GET_ISSUER_CERT_LOCALLY'`: Unable to get local issuer certificate.
  * `'UNABLE_TO_VERIFY_LEAF_SIGNATURE'`: Unable to verify the first certificate.
  * `'CERT_CHAIN_TOO_LONG'`: Certificate chain too long.
  * `'CERT_REVOKED'`: Certificate revoked.
  * `'INVALID_CA'`: Invalid CA certificate.
  * `'PATH_LENGTH_EXCEEDED'`: Path length constraint exceeded.
  * `'INVALID_PURPOSE'`: Unsupported certificate purpose.
  * `'CERT_UNTRUSTED'`: Certificate not trusted.
  * `'CERT_REJECTED'`: Certificate rejected.
  * `'HOSTNAME_MISMATCH'`: Hostname mismatch.

### Class: `tls.CryptoStream`#

Added in: v0.3.4Deprecated since: v0.11.3

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `tls.TLSSocket` instead.

The `tls.CryptoStream` class represents a stream of encrypted data. This class
is deprecated and should no longer be used.

#### `cryptoStream.bytesWritten`#

Added in: v0.3.4Deprecated since: v0.11.3

The `cryptoStream.bytesWritten` property returns the total number of bytes
written to the underlying socket _including_ the bytes required for the
implementation of the TLS protocol.

### Class: `tls.SecurePair`#

Added in: v0.3.2Deprecated since: v0.11.3

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `tls.TLSSocket` instead.

Returned by `tls.createSecurePair()`.

#### Event: `'secure'`#

Added in: v0.3.2Deprecated since: v0.11.3

The `'secure'` event is emitted by the `SecurePair` object once a secure
connection has been established.

As with checking for the server `'secureConnection'` event,
`pair.cleartext.authorized` should be inspected to confirm whether the
certificate used is properly authorized.

### Class: `tls.Server`#

Added in: v0.3.2

  * Extends: <net.Server>

Accepts encrypted connections using TLS or SSL.

#### Event: `'connection'`#

Added in: v0.3.2

  * `socket` <stream.Duplex>

This event is emitted when a new TCP stream is established, before the TLS
handshake begins. `socket` is typically an object of type `net.Socket` but
will not receive events unlike the socket created from the `net.Server`
`'connection'` event. Usually users will not want to access this event.

This event can also be explicitly emitted by users to inject connections into
the TLS server. In that case, any `Duplex` stream can be passed.

#### Event: `'keylog'`#

Added in: v12.3.0, v10.20.0

  * `line` <Buffer> Line of ASCII text, in NSS `SSLKEYLOGFILE` format.
  * `tlsSocket` <tls.TLSSocket> The `tls.TLSSocket` instance on which it was generated.

The `keylog` event is emitted when key material is generated or received by a
connection to this server (typically before handshake has completed, but not
necessarily). This keying material can be stored for debugging, as it allows
captured TLS traffic to be decrypted. It may be emitted multiple times for
each socket.

A typical use case is to append received lines to a common text file, which is
later used by software (such as Wireshark) to decrypt the traffic:

    
    
    const logFile = fs.createWriteStream('/tmp/ssl-keys.log', { flags: 'a' });
    // ...
    server.on('keylog', (line, tlsSocket) => {
      if (tlsSocket.remoteAddress !== '...')
        return; // Only log keys for a particular IP
      logFile.write(line);
    }); copy

#### Event: `'newSession'`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v0.11.12 | The `callback` argument is now supported.  
v0.9.2 | Added in: v0.9.2  
  
The `'newSession'` event is emitted upon creation of a new TLS session. This
may be used to store sessions in external storage. The data should be provided
to the `'resumeSession'` callback.

The listener callback is passed three arguments when called:

  * `sessionId` <Buffer> The TLS session identifier
  * `sessionData` <Buffer> The TLS session data
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A callback function taking no arguments that must be invoked in order for data to be sent or received over the secure connection.

Listening for this event will have an effect only on connections established
after the addition of the event listener.

#### Event: `'OCSPRequest'`#

Added in: v0.11.13

The `'OCSPRequest'` event is emitted when the client sends a certificate
status request. The listener callback is passed three arguments when called:

  * `certificate` <Buffer> The server certificate
  * `issuer` <Buffer> The issuer's certificate
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A callback function that must be invoked to provide the results of the OCSP request.

The server's current certificate can be parsed to obtain the OCSP URL and
certificate ID; after obtaining an OCSP response, `callback(null, resp)` is
then invoked, where `resp` is a `Buffer` instance containing the OCSP
response. Both `certificate` and `issuer` are `Buffer` DER-representations of
the primary and issuer's certificates. These can be used to obtain the OCSP
certificate ID and OCSP endpoint URL.

Alternatively, `callback(null, null)` may be called, indicating that there was
no OCSP response.

Calling `callback(err)` will result in a `socket.destroy(err)` call.

The typical flow of an OCSP request is as follows:

  1. Client connects to the server and sends an `'OCSPRequest'` (via the status info extension in ClientHello).
  2. Server receives the request and emits the `'OCSPRequest'` event, calling the listener if registered.
  3. Server extracts the OCSP URL from either the `certificate` or `issuer` and performs an [OCSP request](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OCSP_stapling) to the CA.
  4. Server receives `'OCSPResponse'` from the CA and sends it back to the client via the `callback` argument
  5. Client validates the response and either destroys the socket or performs a handshake.

The `issuer` can be `null` if the certificate is either self-signed or the
issuer is not in the root certificates list. (An issuer may be provided via
the `ca` option when establishing the TLS connection.)

Listening for this event will have an effect only on connections established
after the addition of the event listener.

An npm module like [asn1.js](https://www.npmjs.com/package/asn1.js) may be
used to parse the certificates.

#### Event: `'resumeSession'`#

Added in: v0.9.2

The `'resumeSession'` event is emitted when the client requests to resume a
previous TLS session. The listener callback is passed two arguments when
called:

  * `sessionId` <Buffer> The TLS session identifier
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A callback function to be called when the prior session has been recovered: `callback([err[, sessionData]])`
    * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)
    * `sessionData` <Buffer>

The event listener should perform a lookup in external storage for the
`sessionData` saved by the `'newSession'` event handler using the given
`sessionId`. If found, call `callback(null, sessionData)` to resume the
session. If not found, the session cannot be resumed. `callback()` must be
called without `sessionData` so that the handshake can continue and a new
session can be created. It is possible to call `callback(err)` to terminate
the incoming connection and destroy the socket.

Listening for this event will have an effect only on connections established
after the addition of the event listener.

The following illustrates resuming a TLS session:

    
    
    const tlsSessionStore = {};
    server.on('newSession', (id, data, cb) => {
      tlsSessionStore[id.toString('hex')] = data;
      cb();
    });
    server.on('resumeSession', (id, cb) => {
      cb(null, tlsSessionStore[id.toString('hex')] || null);
    }); copy

#### Event: `'secureConnection'`#

Added in: v0.3.2

The `'secureConnection'` event is emitted after the handshaking process for a
new connection has successfully completed. The listener callback is passed a
single argument when called:

  * `tlsSocket` <tls.TLSSocket> The established TLS socket.

The `tlsSocket.authorized` property is a `boolean` indicating whether the
client has been verified by one of the supplied Certificate Authorities for
the server. If `tlsSocket.authorized` is `false`, then
`socket.authorizationError` is set to describe how authorization failed.
Depending on the settings of the TLS server, unauthorized connections may
still be accepted.

The `tlsSocket.alpnProtocol` property is a string that contains the selected
ALPN protocol. When ALPN has no selected protocol because the client or the
server did not send an ALPN extension, `tlsSocket.alpnProtocol` equals
`false`.

The `tlsSocket.servername` property is a string containing the server name
requested via SNI.

#### Event: `'tlsClientError'`#

Added in: v6.0.0

The `'tlsClientError'` event is emitted when an error occurs before a secure
connection is established. The listener callback is passed two arguments when
called:

  * `exception` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) The `Error` object describing the error
  * `tlsSocket` <tls.TLSSocket> The `tls.TLSSocket` instance from which the error originated.

#### `server.addContext(hostname, context)`#

Added in: v0.5.3

  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A SNI host name or wildcard (e.g. `'*'`)
  * `context` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | <tls.SecureContext> An object containing any of the possible properties from the `tls.createSecureContext()` `options` arguments (e.g. `key`, `cert`, `ca`, etc), or a TLS context object created with `tls.createSecureContext()` itself.

The `server.addContext()` method adds a secure context that will be used if
the client request's SNI name matches the supplied `hostname` (or wildcard).

When there are multiple matching contexts, the most recently added one is
used.

#### `server.address()`#

Added in: v0.6.0

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns the bound address, the address family name, and port of the server as
reported by the operating system. See `net.Server.address()` for more
information.

#### `server.close([callback])`#

Added in: v0.3.2

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A listener callback that will be registered to listen for the server instance's `'close'` event.
  * Returns: <tls.Server>

The `server.close()` method stops the server from accepting new connections.

This function operates asynchronously. The `'close'` event will be emitted
when the server has no more open connections.

#### `server.getTicketKeys()`#

Added in: v3.0.0

  * Returns: <Buffer> A 48-byte buffer containing the session ticket keys.

Returns the session ticket keys.

See Session Resumption for more information.

#### `server.listen()`#

Starts the server listening for encrypted connections. This method is
identical to `server.listen()` from `net.Server`.

#### `server.setSecureContext(options)`#

Added in: v11.0.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An object containing any of the possible properties from the `tls.createSecureContext()` `options` arguments (e.g. `key`, `cert`, `ca`, etc).

The `server.setSecureContext()` method replaces the secure context of an
existing server. Existing connections to the server are not interrupted.

#### `server.setTicketKeys(keys)`#

Added in: v3.0.0

  * `keys` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) A 48-byte buffer containing the session ticket keys.

Sets the session ticket keys.

Changes to the ticket keys are effective only for future server connections.
Existing or currently pending server connections will use the previous keys.

See Session Resumption for more information.

### Class: `tls.TLSSocket`#

Added in: v0.11.4

  * Extends: <net.Socket>

Performs transparent encryption of written data and all required TLS
negotiation.

Instances of `tls.TLSSocket` implement the duplex Stream interface.

Methods that return TLS connection metadata (e.g.
`tls.TLSSocket.getPeerCertificate()`) will only return data while the
connection is open.

#### `new tls.TLSSocket(socket[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.2.0 | The `enableTrace` option is now supported.  
v5.0.0 | ALPN options are supported now.  
v0.11.4 | Added in: v0.11.4  
  
  * `socket` <net.Socket> | <stream.Duplex> On the server side, any `Duplex` stream. On the client side, any instance of `net.Socket` (for generic `Duplex` stream support on the client side, `tls.connect()` must be used).
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `enableTrace`: See `tls.createServer()`
    * `isServer`: The SSL/TLS protocol is asymmetrical, TLSSockets must know if they are to behave as a server or a client. If `true` the TLS socket will be instantiated as a server. **Default:** `false`.
    * `server` <net.Server> A `net.Server` instance.
    * `requestCert`: Whether to authenticate the remote peer by requesting a certificate. Clients always request a server certificate. Servers (`isServer` is true) may set `requestCert` to true to request a client certificate.
    * `rejectUnauthorized`: See `tls.createServer()`
    * `ALPNProtocols`: See `tls.createServer()`
    * `SNICallback`: See `tls.createServer()`
    * `session` <Buffer> A `Buffer` instance containing a TLS session.
    * `requestOCSP` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, specifies that the OCSP status request extension will be added to the client hello and an `'OCSPResponse'` event will be emitted on the socket before establishing a secure communication
    * `secureContext`: TLS context object created with `tls.createSecureContext()`. If a `secureContext` is _not_ provided, one will be created by passing the entire `options` object to `tls.createSecureContext()`.
    * ...: `tls.createSecureContext()` options that are used if the `secureContext` option is missing. Otherwise, they are ignored.

Construct a new `tls.TLSSocket` object from an existing TCP socket.

#### Event: `'keylog'`#

Added in: v12.3.0, v10.20.0

  * `line` <Buffer> Line of ASCII text, in NSS `SSLKEYLOGFILE` format.

The `keylog` event is emitted on a `tls.TLSSocket` when key material is
generated or received by the socket. This keying material can be stored for
debugging, as it allows captured TLS traffic to be decrypted. It may be
emitted multiple times, before or after the handshake completes.

A typical use case is to append received lines to a common text file, which is
later used by software (such as Wireshark) to decrypt the traffic:

    
    
    const logFile = fs.createWriteStream('/tmp/ssl-keys.log', { flags: 'a' });
    // ...
    tlsSocket.on('keylog', (line) => logFile.write(line)); copy

#### Event: `'OCSPResponse'`#

Added in: v0.11.13

The `'OCSPResponse'` event is emitted if the `requestOCSP` option was set when
the `tls.TLSSocket` was created and an OCSP response has been received. The
listener callback is passed a single argument when called:

  * `response` <Buffer> The server's OCSP response

Typically, the `response` is a digitally signed object from the server's CA
that contains information about server's certificate revocation status.

#### Event: `'secureConnect'`#

Added in: v0.11.4

The `'secureConnect'` event is emitted after the handshaking process for a new
connection has successfully completed. The listener callback will be called
regardless of whether or not the server's certificate has been authorized. It
is the client's responsibility to check the `tlsSocket.authorized` property to
determine if the server certificate was signed by one of the specified CAs. If
`tlsSocket.authorized === false`, then the error can be found by examining the
`tlsSocket.authorizationError` property. If ALPN was used, the
`tlsSocket.alpnProtocol` property can be checked to determine the negotiated
protocol.

The `'secureConnect'` event is not emitted when a <tls.TLSSocket> is created
using the `new tls.TLSSocket()` constructor.

#### Event: `'session'`#

Added in: v11.10.0

  * `session` <Buffer>

The `'session'` event is emitted on a client `tls.TLSSocket` when a new
session or TLS ticket is available. This may or may not be before the
handshake is complete, depending on the TLS protocol version that was
negotiated. The event is not emitted on the server, or if a new session was
not created, for example, when the connection was resumed. For some TLS
protocol versions the event may be emitted multiple times, in which case all
the sessions can be used for resumption.

On the client, the `session` can be provided to the `session` option of
`tls.connect()` to resume the connection.

See Session Resumption for more information.

For TLSv1.2 and below, `tls.TLSSocket.getSession()` can be called once the
handshake is complete. For TLSv1.3, only ticket-based resumption is allowed by
the protocol, multiple tickets are sent, and the tickets aren't sent until
after the handshake completes. So it is necessary to wait for the `'session'`
event to get a resumable session. Applications should use the `'session'`
event instead of `getSession()` to ensure they will work for all TLS versions.
Applications that only expect to get or use one session should listen for this
event only once:

    
    
    tlsSocket.once('session', (session) => {
      // The session can be used immediately or later.
      tls.connect({
        session: session,
        // Other connect options...
      });
    }); copy

#### `tlsSocket.address()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.4.0 | The `family` property now returns a string instead of a number.  
v18.0.0 | The `family` property now returns a number instead of a string.  
v0.11.4 | Added in: v0.11.4  
  
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns the bound `address`, the address `family` name, and `port` of the
underlying socket as reported by the operating system: `{ port: 12346, family:
'IPv4', address: '127.0.0.1' }`.

#### `tlsSocket.authorizationError`#

Added in: v0.11.4

Returns the reason why the peer's certificate was not been verified. This
property is set only when `tlsSocket.authorized === false`.

#### `tlsSocket.authorized`#

Added in: v0.11.4

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

This property is `true` if the peer certificate was signed by one of the CAs
specified when creating the `tls.TLSSocket` instance, otherwise `false`.

#### `tlsSocket.disableRenegotiation()`#

Added in: v8.4.0

Disables TLS renegotiation for this `TLSSocket` instance. Once called,
attempts to renegotiate will trigger an `'error'` event on the `TLSSocket`.

#### `tlsSocket.enableTrace()`#

Added in: v12.2.0

When enabled, TLS packet trace information is written to `stderr`. This can be
used to debug TLS connection problems.

The format of the output is identical to the output of `openssl s_client
-trace` or `openssl s_server -trace`. While it is produced by OpenSSL's
`SSL_trace()` function, the format is undocumented, can change without notice,
and should not be relied on.

#### `tlsSocket.encrypted`#

Added in: v0.11.4

Always returns `true`. This may be used to distinguish TLS sockets from
regular `net.Socket` instances.

#### `tlsSocket.exportKeyingMaterial(length, label[, context])`#

Added in: v13.10.0, v12.17.0

  * `length` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) number of bytes to retrieve from keying material

  * `label` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) an application specific label, typically this will be a value from the [IANA Exporter Label Registry](https://www.iana.org/assignments/tls-parameters/tls-parameters.xhtml#exporter-labels).

  * `context` <Buffer> Optionally provide a context.

  * Returns: <Buffer> requested bytes of the keying material

Keying material is used for validations to prevent different kind of attacks
in network protocols, for example in the specifications of IEEE 802.1X.

Example

    
    
    const keyingMaterial = tlsSocket.exportKeyingMaterial(
      128,
      'client finished');
    
    /*
     Example return value of keyingMaterial:
     <Buffer 76 26 af 99 c5 56 8e 42 09 91 ef 9f 93 cb ad 6c 7b 65 f8 53 f1 d8 d9
        12 5a 33 b8 b5 25 df 7b 37 9f e0 e2 4f b8 67 83 a3 2f cd 5d 41 42 4c 91
        74 ef 2c ... 78 more bytes>
    */ copy

See the OpenSSL
[`SSL_export_keying_material`](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man3/SSL_export_keying_material.html)
documentation for more information.

#### `tlsSocket.getCertificate()`#

Added in: v11.2.0

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns an object representing the local certificate. The returned object has
some properties corresponding to the fields of the certificate.

See `tls.TLSSocket.getPeerCertificate()` for an example of the certificate
structure.

If there is no local certificate, an empty object will be returned. If the
socket has been destroyed, `null` will be returned.

#### `tlsSocket.getCipher()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.4.0, v12.16.0 | Return the IETF cipher name as `standardName`.  
v12.0.0 | Return the minimum cipher version, instead of a fixed string (`'TLSv1/SSLv3'`).  
v0.11.4 | Added in: v0.11.4  
  
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) OpenSSL name for the cipher suite.
    * `standardName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) IETF name for the cipher suite.
    * `version` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The minimum TLS protocol version supported by this cipher suite. For the actual negotiated protocol, see `tls.TLSSocket.getProtocol()`.

Returns an object containing information on the negotiated cipher suite.

For example, a TLSv1.2 protocol with AES256-SHA cipher:

    
    
    {
        "name": "AES256-SHA",
        "standardName": "TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA",
        "version": "SSLv3"
    } copy

See
[SSL_CIPHER_get_name](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man3/SSL_CIPHER_get_name.html)
for more information.

#### `tlsSocket.getEphemeralKeyInfo()`#

Added in: v5.0.0

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns an object representing the type, name, and size of parameter of an
ephemeral key exchange in perfect forward secrecy on a client connection. It
returns an empty object when the key exchange is not ephemeral. As this is
only supported on a client socket; `null` is returned if called on a server
socket. The supported types are `'DH'` and `'ECDH'`. The `name` property is
available only when type is `'ECDH'`.

For example: `{ type: 'ECDH', name: 'prime256v1', size: 256 }`.

#### `tlsSocket.getFinished()`#

Added in: v9.9.0

  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The latest `Finished` message that has been sent to the socket as part of a SSL/TLS handshake, or `undefined` if no `Finished` message has been sent yet.

As the `Finished` messages are message digests of the complete handshake (with
a total of 192 bits for TLS 1.0 and more for SSL 3.0), they can be used for
external authentication procedures when the authentication provided by SSL/TLS
is not desired or is not enough.

Corresponds to the `SSL_get_finished` routine in OpenSSL and may be used to
implement the `tls-unique` channel binding from [RFC
5929](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5929).

#### `tlsSocket.getPeerCertificate([detailed])`#

Added in: v0.11.4

  * `detailed` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Include the full certificate chain if `true`, otherwise include just the peer's certificate.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) A certificate object.

Returns an object representing the peer's certificate. If the peer does not
provide a certificate, an empty object will be returned. If the socket has
been destroyed, `null` will be returned.

If the full certificate chain was requested, each certificate will include an
`issuerCertificate` property containing an object representing its issuer's
certificate.

##### Certificate object#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.1.0, v18.13.0 | Add "ca" property.  
v17.2.0, v16.14.0 | Add fingerprint512.  
v11.4.0 | Support Elliptic Curve public key info.  
  
A certificate object has properties corresponding to the fields of the
certificate.

  * `ca` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if a Certificate Authority (CA), `false` otherwise.
  * `raw` <Buffer> The DER encoded X.509 certificate data.
  * `subject` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The certificate subject, described in terms of Country (`C`), StateOrProvince (`ST`), Locality (`L`), Organization (`O`), OrganizationalUnit (`OU`), and CommonName (`CN`). The CommonName is typically a DNS name with TLS certificates. Example: `{C: 'UK', ST: 'BC', L: 'Metro', O: 'Node Fans', OU: 'Docs', CN: 'example.com'}`.
  * `issuer` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The certificate issuer, described in the same terms as the `subject`.
  * `valid_from` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The date-time the certificate is valid from.
  * `valid_to` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The date-time the certificate is valid to.
  * `serialNumber` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The certificate serial number, as a hex string. Example: `'B9B0D332A1AA5635'`.
  * `fingerprint` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The SHA-1 digest of the DER encoded certificate. It is returned as a `:` separated hexadecimal string. Example: `'2A:7A:C2:DD:...'`.
  * `fingerprint256` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The SHA-256 digest of the DER encoded certificate. It is returned as a `:` separated hexadecimal string. Example: `'2A:7A:C2:DD:...'`.
  * `fingerprint512` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The SHA-512 digest of the DER encoded certificate. It is returned as a `:` separated hexadecimal string. Example: `'2A:7A:C2:DD:...'`.
  * `ext_key_usage` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) (Optional) The extended key usage, a set of OIDs.
  * `subjectaltname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) (Optional) A string containing concatenated names for the subject, an alternative to the `subject` names.
  * `infoAccess` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) (Optional) An array describing the AuthorityInfoAccess, used with OCSP.
  * `issuerCertificate` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) (Optional) The issuer certificate object. For self-signed certificates, this may be a circular reference.

The certificate may contain information about the public key, depending on the
key type.

For RSA keys, the following properties may be defined:

  * `bits` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The RSA bit size. Example: `1024`.
  * `exponent` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The RSA exponent, as a string in hexadecimal number notation. Example: `'0x010001'`.
  * `modulus` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The RSA modulus, as a hexadecimal string. Example: `'B56CE45CB7...'`.
  * `pubkey` <Buffer> The public key.

For EC keys, the following properties may be defined:

  * `pubkey` <Buffer> The public key.
  * `bits` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The key size in bits. Example: `256`.
  * `asn1Curve` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) (Optional) The ASN.1 name of the OID of the elliptic curve. Well-known curves are identified by an OID. While it is unusual, it is possible that the curve is identified by its mathematical properties, in which case it will not have an OID. Example: `'prime256v1'`.
  * `nistCurve` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) (Optional) The NIST name for the elliptic curve, if it has one (not all well-known curves have been assigned names by NIST). Example: `'P-256'`.

Example certificate:

    
    
    { subject:
       { OU: [ 'Domain Control Validated', 'PositiveSSL Wildcard' ],
         CN: '*.nodejs.org' },
      issuer:
       { C: 'GB',
         ST: 'Greater Manchester',
         L: 'Salford',
         O: 'COMODO CA Limited',
         CN: 'COMODO RSA Domain Validation Secure Server CA' },
      subjectaltname: 'DNS:*.nodejs.org, DNS:nodejs.org',
      infoAccess:
       { 'CA Issuers - URI':
          [ 'http://crt.comodoca.com/COMODORSADomainValidationSecureServerCA.crt' ],
         'OCSP - URI': [ 'http://ocsp.comodoca.com' ] },
      modulus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
      exponent: '0x10001',
      pubkey: <Buffer ... >,
      valid_from: 'Aug 14 00:00:00 2017 GMT',
      valid_to: 'Nov 20 23:59:59 2019 GMT',
      fingerprint: '01:02:59:D9:C3:D2:0D:08:F7:82:4E:44:A4:B4:53:C5:E2:3A:87:4D',
      fingerprint256: '69:AE:1A:6A:D4:3D:C6:C1:1B:EA:C6:23:DE:BA:2A:14:62:62:93:5C:7A:EA:06:41:9B:0B:BC:87:CE:48:4E:02',
      fingerprint512: '19:2B:3E:C3:B3:5B:32:E8:AE:BB:78:97:27:E4:BA:6C:39:C9:92:79:4F:31:46:39:E2:70:E5:5F:89:42:17:C9:E8:64:CA:FF:BB:72:56:73:6E:28:8A:92:7E:A3:2A:15:8B:C2:E0:45:CA:C3:BC:EA:40:52:EC:CA:A2:68:CB:32',
      ext_key_usage: [ '1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.1', '1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.2' ],
      serialNumber: '66593D57F20CBC573E433381B5FEC280',
      raw: <Buffer ... > } copy

#### `tlsSocket.getPeerFinished()`#

Added in: v9.9.0

  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The latest `Finished` message that is expected or has actually been received from the socket as part of a SSL/TLS handshake, or `undefined` if there is no `Finished` message so far.

As the `Finished` messages are message digests of the complete handshake (with
a total of 192 bits for TLS 1.0 and more for SSL 3.0), they can be used for
external authentication procedures when the authentication provided by SSL/TLS
is not desired or is not enough.

Corresponds to the `SSL_get_peer_finished` routine in OpenSSL and may be used
to implement the `tls-unique` channel binding from [RFC
5929](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5929).

#### `tlsSocket.getPeerX509Certificate()`#

Added in: v15.9.0

  * Returns: <X509Certificate>

Returns the peer certificate as an <X509Certificate> object.

If there is no peer certificate, or the socket has been destroyed, `undefined`
will be returned.

#### `tlsSocket.getProtocol()`#

Added in: v5.7.0

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type)

Returns a string containing the negotiated SSL/TLS protocol version of the
current connection. The value `'unknown'` will be returned for connected
sockets that have not completed the handshaking process. The value `null` will
be returned for server sockets or disconnected client sockets.

Protocol versions are:

  * `'SSLv3'`
  * `'TLSv1'`
  * `'TLSv1.1'`
  * `'TLSv1.2'`
  * `'TLSv1.3'`

See the OpenSSL
[`SSL_get_version`](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man3/SSL_get_version.html)
documentation for more information.

#### `tlsSocket.getSession()`#

Added in: v0.11.4

  * <Buffer>

Returns the TLS session data or `undefined` if no session was negotiated. On
the client, the data can be provided to the `session` option of
`tls.connect()` to resume the connection. On the server, it may be useful for
debugging.

See Session Resumption for more information.

Note: `getSession()` works only for TLSv1.2 and below. For TLSv1.3,
applications must use the `'session'` event (it also works for TLSv1.2 and
below).

#### `tlsSocket.getSharedSigalgs()`#

Added in: v12.11.0

  * Returns: [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) List of signature algorithms shared between the server and the client in the order of decreasing preference.

See
[SSL_get_shared_sigalgs](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man3/SSL_get_shared_sigalgs.html)
for more information.

#### `tlsSocket.getTLSTicket()`#

Added in: v0.11.4

  * <Buffer>

For a client, returns the TLS session ticket if one is available, or
`undefined`. For a server, always returns `undefined`.

It may be useful for debugging.

See Session Resumption for more information.

#### `tlsSocket.getX509Certificate()`#

Added in: v15.9.0

  * Returns: <X509Certificate>

Returns the local certificate as an <X509Certificate> object.

If there is no local certificate, or the socket has been destroyed,
`undefined` will be returned.

#### `tlsSocket.isSessionReused()`#

Added in: v0.5.6

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the session was reused, `false` otherwise.

See Session Resumption for more information.

#### `tlsSocket.localAddress`#

Added in: v0.11.4

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the string representation of the local IP address.

#### `tlsSocket.localPort`#

Added in: v0.11.4

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the numeric representation of the local port.

#### `tlsSocket.remoteAddress`#

Added in: v0.11.4

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the string representation of the remote IP address. For example,
`'74.125.127.100'` or `'2001:4860:a005::68'`.

#### `tlsSocket.remoteFamily`#

Added in: v0.11.4

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the string representation of the remote IP family. `'IPv4'` or
`'IPv6'`.

#### `tlsSocket.remotePort`#

Added in: v0.11.4

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the numeric representation of the remote port. For example, `443`.

#### `tlsSocket.renegotiate(options, callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `callback` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
v0.11.8 | Added in: v0.11.8  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

    * `rejectUnauthorized` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If not `false`, the server certificate is verified against the list of supplied CAs. An `'error'` event is emitted if verification fails; `err.code` contains the OpenSSL error code. **Default:** `true`.
    * `requestCert`
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) If `renegotiate()` returned `true`, callback is attached once to the `'secure'` event. If `renegotiate()` returned `false`, `callback` will be called in the next tick with an error, unless the `tlsSocket` has been destroyed, in which case `callback` will not be called at all.

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if renegotiation was initiated, `false` otherwise.

The `tlsSocket.renegotiate()` method initiates a TLS renegotiation process.
Upon completion, the `callback` function will be passed a single argument that
is either an `Error` (if the request failed) or `null`.

This method can be used to request a peer's certificate after the secure
connection has been established.

When running as the server, the socket will be destroyed with an error after
`handshakeTimeout` timeout.

For TLSv1.3, renegotiation cannot be initiated, it is not supported by the
protocol.

#### `tlsSocket.setKeyCert(context)`#

Added in: v22.5.0, v20.17.0

  * `context` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | <tls.SecureContext> An object containing at least `key` and `cert` properties from the `tls.createSecureContext()` `options`, or a TLS context object created with `tls.createSecureContext()` itself.

The `tlsSocket.setKeyCert()` method sets the private key and certificate to
use for the socket. This is mainly useful if you wish to select a server
certificate from a TLS server's `ALPNCallback`.

#### `tlsSocket.setMaxSendFragment(size)`#

Added in: v0.11.11

  * `size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The maximum TLS fragment size. The maximum value is `16384`. **Default:** `16384`.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `tlsSocket.setMaxSendFragment()` method sets the maximum TLS fragment
size. Returns `true` if setting the limit succeeded; `false` otherwise.

Smaller fragment sizes decrease the buffering latency on the client: larger
fragments are buffered by the TLS layer until the entire fragment is received
and its integrity is verified; large fragments can span multiple roundtrips
and their processing can be delayed due to packet loss or reordering. However,
smaller fragments add extra TLS framing bytes and CPU overhead, which may
decrease overall server throughput.

### `tls.checkServerIdentity(hostname, cert)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.3.1, v16.13.2, v14.18.3, v12.22.9 | Support for `uniformResourceIdentifier` subject alternative names has been disabled in response to CVE-2021-44531.  
v0.8.4 | Added in: v0.8.4  
  
  * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The host name or IP address to verify the certificate against.
  * `cert` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) A certificate object representing the peer's certificate.
  * Returns: [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

Verifies the certificate `cert` is issued to `hostname`.

Returns [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) object, populating it
with `reason`, `host`, and `cert` on failure. On success, returns
[<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type).

This function is intended to be used in combination with the
`checkServerIdentity` option that can be passed to `tls.connect()` and as such
operates on a certificate object. For other purposes, consider using
`x509.checkHost()` instead.

This function can be overwritten by providing an alternative function as the
`options.checkServerIdentity` option that is passed to `tls.connect()`. The
overwriting function can call `tls.checkServerIdentity()` of course, to
augment the checks done with additional verification.

This function is only called if the certificate passed all other checks, such
as being issued by trusted CA (`options.ca`).

Earlier versions of Node.js incorrectly accepted certificates for a given
`hostname` if a matching `uniformResourceIdentifier` subject alternative name
was present (see [CVE-2021-44531](https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-
bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2021-44531)). Applications that wish to accept
`uniformResourceIdentifier` subject alternative names can use a custom
`options.checkServerIdentity` function that implements the desired behavior.

### `tls.connect(options[, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.1.0, v14.18.0 | Added `onread` option.  
v14.1.0, v13.14.0 | The `highWaterMark` option is accepted now.  
v13.6.0, v12.16.0 | The `pskCallback` option is now supported.  
v12.9.0 | Support the `allowHalfOpen` option.  
v12.4.0 | The `hints` option is now supported.  
v12.2.0 | The `enableTrace` option is now supported.  
v11.8.0, v10.16.0 | The `timeout` option is supported now.  
v8.0.0 | The `lookup` option is supported now.  
v8.0.0 | The `ALPNProtocols` option can be a `TypedArray` or `DataView` now.  
v5.0.0 | ALPN options are supported now.  
v5.3.0, v4.7.0 | The `secureContext` option is supported now.  
v0.11.3 | Added in: v0.11.3  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `enableTrace`: See `tls.createServer()`
    * `host` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Host the client should connect to. **Default:** `'localhost'`.
    * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Port the client should connect to.
    * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Creates Unix socket connection to path. If this option is specified, `host` and `port` are ignored.
    * `socket` <stream.Duplex> Establish secure connection on a given socket rather than creating a new socket. Typically, this is an instance of `net.Socket`, but any `Duplex` stream is allowed. If this option is specified, `path`, `host`, and `port` are ignored, except for certificate validation. Usually, a socket is already connected when passed to `tls.connect()`, but it can be connected later. Connection/disconnection/destruction of `socket` is the user's responsibility; calling `tls.connect()` will not cause `net.connect()` to be called.
    * `allowHalfOpen` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `false`, then the socket will automatically end the writable side when the readable side ends. If the `socket` option is set, this option has no effect. See the `allowHalfOpen` option of `net.Socket` for details. **Default:** `false`.
    * `rejectUnauthorized` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If not `false`, the server certificate is verified against the list of supplied CAs. An `'error'` event is emitted if verification fails; `err.code` contains the OpenSSL error code. **Default:** `true`.
    * `pskCallback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) For TLS-PSK negotiation, see Pre-shared keys.
    * `ALPNProtocols`: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer[]> | [<TypedArray[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) An array of strings, `Buffer`s, `TypedArray`s, or `DataView`s, or a single `Buffer`, `TypedArray`, or `DataView` containing the supported ALPN protocols. `Buffer`s should have the format `[len][name][len][name]...` e.g. `'\x08http/1.1\x08http/1.0'`, where the `len` byte is the length of the next protocol name. Passing an array is usually much simpler, e.g. `['http/1.1', 'http/1.0']`. Protocols earlier in the list have higher preference than those later.
    * `servername`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Server name for the SNI (Server Name Indication) TLS extension. It is the name of the host being connected to, and must be a host name, and not an IP address. It can be used by a multi-homed server to choose the correct certificate to present to the client, see the `SNICallback` option to `tls.createServer()`.
    * `checkServerIdentity(servername, cert)` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A callback function to be used (instead of the builtin `tls.checkServerIdentity()` function) when checking the server's host name (or the provided `servername` when explicitly set) against the certificate. This should return an [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) if verification fails. The method should return `undefined` if the `servername` and `cert` are verified.
    * `session` <Buffer> A `Buffer` instance, containing TLS session.
    * `minDHSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Minimum size of the DH parameter in bits to accept a TLS connection. When a server offers a DH parameter with a size less than `minDHSize`, the TLS connection is destroyed and an error is thrown. **Default:** `1024`.
    * `highWaterMark`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Consistent with the readable stream `highWaterMark` parameter. **Default:** `16 * 1024`.
    * `secureContext`: TLS context object created with `tls.createSecureContext()`. If a `secureContext` is _not_ provided, one will be created by passing the entire `options` object to `tls.createSecureContext()`.
    * `onread` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) If the `socket` option is missing, incoming data is stored in a single `buffer` and passed to the supplied `callback` when data arrives on the socket, otherwise the option is ignored. See the `onread` option of `net.Socket` for details.
    * ...: `tls.createSecureContext()` options that are used if the `secureContext` option is missing, otherwise they are ignored.
    * ...: Any `socket.connect()` option not already listed.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <tls.TLSSocket>

The `callback` function, if specified, will be added as a listener for the
`'secureConnect'` event.

`tls.connect()` returns a `tls.TLSSocket` object.

Unlike the `https` API, `tls.connect()` does not enable the SNI (Server Name
Indication) extension by default, which may cause some servers to return an
incorrect certificate or reject the connection altogether. To enable SNI, set
the `servername` option in addition to `host`.

The following illustrates a client for the echo server example from
`tls.createServer()`:

    
    
    // Assumes an echo server that is listening on port 8000.
    import { connect } from 'node:tls';
    import { readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    import { stdin } from 'node:process';
    
    const options = {
      // Necessary only if the server requires client certificate authentication.
      key: readFileSync('client-key.pem'),
      cert: readFileSync('client-cert.pem'),
    
      // Necessary only if the server uses a self-signed certificate.
      ca: [ readFileSync('server-cert.pem') ],
    
      // Necessary only if the server's cert isn't for "localhost".
      checkServerIdentity: () => { return null; },
    };
    
    const socket = connect(8000, options, () => {
      console.log('client connected',
                  socket.authorized ? 'authorized' : 'unauthorized');
      stdin.pipe(socket);
      stdin.resume();
    });
    socket.setEncoding('utf8');
    socket.on('data', (data) => {
      console.log(data);
    });
    socket.on('end', () => {
      console.log('server ends connection');
    });// Assumes an echo server that is listening on port 8000.
    const { connect } = require('node:tls');
    const { readFileSync } = require('node:fs');
    
    const options = {
      // Necessary only if the server requires client certificate authentication.
      key: readFileSync('client-key.pem'),
      cert: readFileSync('client-cert.pem'),
    
      // Necessary only if the server uses a self-signed certificate.
      ca: [ readFileSync('server-cert.pem') ],
    
      // Necessary only if the server's cert isn't for "localhost".
      checkServerIdentity: () => { return null; },
    };
    
    const socket = connect(8000, options, () => {
      console.log('client connected',
                  socket.authorized ? 'authorized' : 'unauthorized');
      process.stdin.pipe(socket);
      process.stdin.resume();
    });
    socket.setEncoding('utf8');
    socket.on('data', (data) => {
      console.log(data);
    });
    socket.on('end', () => {
      console.log('server ends connection');
    });copy

To generate the certificate and key for this example, run:

    
    
    openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -sha256 -subj '/CN=localhost' \
      -keyout client-key.pem -out client-cert.pem copy

Then, to generate the `server-cert.pem` certificate for this example, run:

    
    
    openssl pkcs12 -certpbe AES-256-CBC -export -out server-cert.pem \
      -inkey client-key.pem -in client-cert.pem copy

### `tls.connect(path[, options][, callback])`#

Added in: v0.11.3

  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Default value for `options.path`.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) See `tls.connect()`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) See `tls.connect()`.
  * Returns: <tls.TLSSocket>

Same as `tls.connect()` except that `path` can be provided as an argument
instead of an option.

A path option, if specified, will take precedence over the path argument.

### `tls.connect(port[, host][, options][, callback])`#

Added in: v0.11.3

  * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Default value for `options.port`.
  * `host` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Default value for `options.host`.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) See `tls.connect()`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) See `tls.connect()`.
  * Returns: <tls.TLSSocket>

Same as `tls.connect()` except that `port` and `host` can be provided as
arguments instead of options.

A port or host option, if specified, will take precedence over any port or
host argument.

### `tls.createSecureContext([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.9.0, v20.18.0 | The `allowPartialTrustChain` option has been added.  
v22.4.0, v20.16.0 | The `clientCertEngine`, `privateKeyEngine` and `privateKeyIdentifier` options depend on custom engine support in OpenSSL which is deprecated in OpenSSL 3.  
v19.8.0, v18.16.0 | The `dhparam` option can now be set to `'auto'` to enable DHE with appropriate well-known parameters.  
v12.12.0 | Added `privateKeyIdentifier` and `privateKeyEngine` options to get private key from an OpenSSL engine.  
v12.11.0 | Added `sigalgs` option to override supported signature algorithms.  
v12.0.0 | TLSv1.3 support added.  
v11.5.0 | The `ca:` option now supports `BEGIN TRUSTED CERTIFICATE`.  
v11.4.0, v10.16.0 | The `minVersion` and `maxVersion` can be used to restrict the allowed TLS protocol versions.  
v10.0.0 | The `ecdhCurve` cannot be set to `false` anymore due to a change in OpenSSL.  
v9.3.0 | The `options` parameter can now include `clientCertEngine`.  
v9.0.0 | The `ecdhCurve` option can now be multiple `':'` separated curve names or `'auto'`.  
v7.3.0 | If the `key` option is an array, individual entries do not need a `passphrase` property anymore. `Array` entries can also just be `string`s or `Buffer`s now.  
v5.2.0 | The `ca` option can now be a single string containing multiple CA certificates.  
v0.11.13 | Added in: v0.11.13  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `allowPartialTrustChain` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Treat intermediate (non-self-signed) certificates in the trust CA certificate list as trusted.
    * `ca` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <Buffer[]> Optionally override the trusted CA certificates. If not specified, the CA certificates trusted by default are the same as the ones returned by `tls.getCACertificates()` using the `default` type. If specified, the default list would be completely replaced (instead of being concatenated) by the certificates in the `ca` option. Users need to concatenate manually if they wish to add additional certificates instead of completely overriding the default. The value can be a string or `Buffer`, or an `Array` of strings and/or `Buffer`s. Any string or `Buffer` can contain multiple PEM CAs concatenated together. The peer's certificate must be chainable to a CA trusted by the server for the connection to be authenticated. When using certificates that are not chainable to a well-known CA, the certificate's CA must be explicitly specified as a trusted or the connection will fail to authenticate. If the peer uses a certificate that doesn't match or chain to one of the default CAs, use the `ca` option to provide a CA certificate that the peer's certificate can match or chain to. For self-signed certificates, the certificate is its own CA, and must be provided. For PEM encoded certificates, supported types are "TRUSTED CERTIFICATE", "X509 CERTIFICATE", and "CERTIFICATE".
    * `cert` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <Buffer[]> Cert chains in PEM format. One cert chain should be provided per private key. Each cert chain should consist of the PEM formatted certificate for a provided private `key`, followed by the PEM formatted intermediate certificates (if any), in order, and not including the root CA (the root CA must be pre-known to the peer, see `ca`). When providing multiple cert chains, they do not have to be in the same order as their private keys in `key`. If the intermediate certificates are not provided, the peer will not be able to validate the certificate, and the handshake will fail.
    * `sigalgs` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Colon-separated list of supported signature algorithms. The list can contain digest algorithms (`SHA256`, `MD5` etc.), public key algorithms (`RSA-PSS`, `ECDSA` etc.), combination of both (e.g 'RSA+SHA384') or TLS v1.3 scheme names (e.g. `rsa_pss_pss_sha512`). See [OpenSSL man pages](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man3/SSL_CTX_set1_sigalgs_list.html) for more info.
    * `ciphers` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Cipher suite specification, replacing the default. For more information, see Modifying the default TLS cipher suite. Permitted ciphers can be obtained via `tls.getCiphers()`. Cipher names must be uppercased in order for OpenSSL to accept them.
    * `clientCertEngine` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of an OpenSSL engine which can provide the client certificate. **Deprecated.**
    * `crl` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <Buffer[]> PEM formatted CRLs (Certificate Revocation Lists).
    * `dhparam` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> `'auto'` or custom Diffie-Hellman parameters, required for non-ECDHE perfect forward secrecy. If omitted or invalid, the parameters are silently discarded and DHE ciphers will not be available. [ECDHE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elliptic_curve_Diffie%E2%80%93Hellman)-based perfect forward secrecy will still be available.
    * `ecdhCurve` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A string describing a named curve or a colon separated list of curve NIDs or names, for example `P-521:P-384:P-256`, to use for ECDH key agreement. Set to `auto` to select the curve automatically. Use `crypto.getCurves()` to obtain a list of available curve names. On recent releases, `openssl ecparam -list_curves` will also display the name and description of each available elliptic curve. **Default:** `tls.DEFAULT_ECDH_CURVE`.
    * `honorCipherOrder` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Attempt to use the server's cipher suite preferences instead of the client's. When `true`, causes `SSL_OP_CIPHER_SERVER_PREFERENCE` to be set in `secureOptions`, see OpenSSL Options for more information.
    * `key` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <Buffer[]> | [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Private keys in PEM format. PEM allows the option of private keys being encrypted. Encrypted keys will be decrypted with `options.passphrase`. Multiple keys using different algorithms can be provided either as an array of unencrypted key strings or buffers, or an array of objects in the form `{pem: <string|buffer>[, passphrase: <string>]}`. The object form can only occur in an array. `object.passphrase` is optional. Encrypted keys will be decrypted with `object.passphrase` if provided, or `options.passphrase` if it is not.
    * `privateKeyEngine` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of an OpenSSL engine to get private key from. Should be used together with `privateKeyIdentifier`. **Deprecated.**
    * `privateKeyIdentifier` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Identifier of a private key managed by an OpenSSL engine. Should be used together with `privateKeyEngine`. Should not be set together with `key`, because both options define a private key in different ways. **Deprecated.**
    * `maxVersion` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Optionally set the maximum TLS version to allow. One of `'TLSv1.3'`, `'TLSv1.2'`, `'TLSv1.1'`, or `'TLSv1'`. Cannot be specified along with the `secureProtocol` option; use one or the other. **Default:** `tls.DEFAULT_MAX_VERSION`.
    * `minVersion` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Optionally set the minimum TLS version to allow. One of `'TLSv1.3'`, `'TLSv1.2'`, `'TLSv1.1'`, or `'TLSv1'`. Cannot be specified along with the `secureProtocol` option; use one or the other. Avoid setting to less than TLSv1.2, but it may be required for interoperability. Versions before TLSv1.2 may require downgrading the OpenSSL Security Level. **Default:** `tls.DEFAULT_MIN_VERSION`.
    * `passphrase` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Shared passphrase used for a single private key and/or a PFX.
    * `pfx` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | <Buffer[]> | [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) PFX or PKCS12 encoded private key and certificate chain. `pfx` is an alternative to providing `key` and `cert` individually. PFX is usually encrypted, if it is, `passphrase` will be used to decrypt it. Multiple PFX can be provided either as an array of unencrypted PFX buffers, or an array of objects in the form `{buf: <string|buffer>[, passphrase: <string>]}`. The object form can only occur in an array. `object.passphrase` is optional. Encrypted PFX will be decrypted with `object.passphrase` if provided, or `options.passphrase` if it is not.
    * `secureOptions` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Optionally affect the OpenSSL protocol behavior, which is not usually necessary. This should be used carefully if at all! Value is a numeric bitmask of the `SSL_OP_*` options from OpenSSL Options.
    * `secureProtocol` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Legacy mechanism to select the TLS protocol version to use, it does not support independent control of the minimum and maximum version, and does not support limiting the protocol to TLSv1.3. Use `minVersion` and `maxVersion` instead. The possible values are listed as [SSL_METHODS](https://www.openssl.org/docs/man1.1.1/man7/ssl.html#Dealing-with-Protocol-Methods), use the function names as strings. For example, use `'TLSv1_1_method'` to force TLS version 1.1, or `'TLS_method'` to allow any TLS protocol version up to TLSv1.3. It is not recommended to use TLS versions less than 1.2, but it may be required for interoperability. **Default:** none, see `minVersion`.
    * `sessionIdContext` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Opaque identifier used by servers to ensure session state is not shared between applications. Unused by clients.
    * `ticketKeys`: <Buffer> 48-bytes of cryptographically strong pseudorandom data. See Session Resumption for more information.
    * `sessionTimeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of seconds after which a TLS session created by the server will no longer be resumable. See Session Resumption for more information. **Default:** `300`.

`tls.createServer()` sets the default value of the `honorCipherOrder` option
to `true`, other APIs that create secure contexts leave it unset.

`tls.createServer()` uses a 128 bit truncated SHA1 hash value generated from
`process.argv` as the default value of the `sessionIdContext` option, other
APIs that create secure contexts have no default value.

The `tls.createSecureContext()` method creates a `SecureContext` object. It is
usable as an argument to several `tls` APIs, such as `server.addContext()`,
but has no public methods. The `tls.Server` constructor and the
`tls.createServer()` method do not support the `secureContext` option.

A key is _required_ for ciphers that use certificates. Either `key` or `pfx`
can be used to provide it.

If the `ca` option is not given, then Node.js will default to using [Mozilla's
publicly trusted list of CAs](https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-central/raw-
file/tip/security/nss/lib/ckfw/builtins/certdata.txt).

Custom DHE parameters are discouraged in favor of the new `dhparam: 'auto'`
option. When set to `'auto'`, well-known DHE parameters of sufficient strength
will be selected automatically. Otherwise, if necessary, `openssl dhparam` can
be used to create custom parameters. The key length must be greater than or
equal to 1024 bits or else an error will be thrown. Although 1024 bits is
permissible, use 2048 bits or larger for stronger security.

### `tls.createSecurePair([context][, isServer][, requestCert][,
rejectUnauthorized][, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v5.0.0 | ALPN options are supported now.  
v0.11.3 | Deprecated since: v0.11.3  
v0.3.2 | Added in: v0.3.2  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use `tls.TLSSocket` instead.

  * `context` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) A secure context object as returned by `tls.createSecureContext()`
  * `isServer` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` to specify that this TLS connection should be opened as a server.
  * `requestCert` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` to specify whether a server should request a certificate from a connecting client. Only applies when `isServer` is `true`.
  * `rejectUnauthorized` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If not `false` a server automatically reject clients with invalid certificates. Only applies when `isServer` is `true`.
  * `options`
    * `enableTrace`: See `tls.createServer()`
    * `secureContext`: A TLS context object from `tls.createSecureContext()`
    * `isServer`: If `true` the TLS socket will be instantiated in server-mode. **Default:** `false`.
    * `server` <net.Server> A `net.Server` instance
    * `requestCert`: See `tls.createServer()`
    * `rejectUnauthorized`: See `tls.createServer()`
    * `ALPNProtocols`: See `tls.createServer()`
    * `SNICallback`: See `tls.createServer()`
    * `session` <Buffer> A `Buffer` instance containing a TLS session.
    * `requestOCSP` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, specifies that the OCSP status request extension will be added to the client hello and an `'OCSPResponse'` event will be emitted on the socket before establishing a secure communication.

Creates a new secure pair object with two streams, one of which reads and
writes the encrypted data and the other of which reads and writes the
cleartext data. Generally, the encrypted stream is piped to/from an incoming
encrypted data stream and the cleartext one is used as a replacement for the
initial encrypted stream.

`tls.createSecurePair()` returns a `tls.SecurePair` object with `cleartext`
and `encrypted` stream properties.

Using `cleartext` has the same API as `tls.TLSSocket`.

The `tls.createSecurePair()` method is now deprecated in favor of
`tls.TLSSocket()`. For example, the code:

    
    
    pair = tls.createSecurePair(/* ... */);
    pair.encrypted.pipe(socket);
    socket.pipe(pair.encrypted); copy

can be replaced by:

    
    
    secureSocket = tls.TLSSocket(socket, options); copy

where `secureSocket` has the same API as `pair.cleartext`.

### `tls.createServer([options][, secureConnectionListener])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.4.0, v20.16.0 | The `clientCertEngine` option depends on custom engine support in OpenSSL which is deprecated in OpenSSL 3.  
v19.0.0 | If `ALPNProtocols` is set, incoming connections that send an ALPN extension with no supported protocols are terminated with a fatal `no_application_protocol` alert.  
v20.4.0, v18.19.0 | The `options` parameter can now include `ALPNCallback`.  
v12.3.0 | The `options` parameter now supports `net.createServer()` options.  
v9.3.0 | The `options` parameter can now include `clientCertEngine`.  
v8.0.0 | The `ALPNProtocols` option can be a `TypedArray` or `DataView` now.  
v5.0.0 | ALPN options are supported now.  
v0.3.2 | Added in: v0.3.2  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `ALPNProtocols`: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer[]> | [<TypedArray[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) An array of strings, `Buffer`s, `TypedArray`s, or `DataView`s, or a single `Buffer`, `TypedArray`, or `DataView` containing the supported ALPN protocols. `Buffer`s should have the format `[len][name][len][name]...` e.g. `0x05hello0x05world`, where the first byte is the length of the next protocol name. Passing an array is usually much simpler, e.g. `['hello', 'world']`. (Protocols should be ordered by their priority.)
    * `ALPNCallback`: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) If set, this will be called when a client opens a connection using the ALPN extension. One argument will be passed to the callback: an object containing `servername` and `protocols` fields, respectively containing the server name from the SNI extension (if any) and an array of ALPN protocol name strings. The callback must return either one of the strings listed in `protocols`, which will be returned to the client as the selected ALPN protocol, or `undefined`, to reject the connection with a fatal alert. If a string is returned that does not match one of the client's ALPN protocols, an error will be thrown. This option cannot be used with the `ALPNProtocols` option, and setting both options will throw an error.
    * `clientCertEngine` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of an OpenSSL engine which can provide the client certificate. **Deprecated.**
    * `enableTrace` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, `tls.TLSSocket.enableTrace()` will be called on new connections. Tracing can be enabled after the secure connection is established, but this option must be used to trace the secure connection setup. **Default:** `false`.
    * `handshakeTimeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Abort the connection if the SSL/TLS handshake does not finish in the specified number of milliseconds. A `'tlsClientError'` is emitted on the `tls.Server` object whenever a handshake times out. **Default:** `120000` (120 seconds).
    * `rejectUnauthorized` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If not `false` the server will reject any connection which is not authorized with the list of supplied CAs. This option only has an effect if `requestCert` is `true`. **Default:** `true`.
    * `requestCert` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true` the server will request a certificate from clients that connect and attempt to verify that certificate. **Default:** `false`.
    * `sessionTimeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of seconds after which a TLS session created by the server will no longer be resumable. See Session Resumption for more information. **Default:** `300`.
    * `SNICallback(servername, callback)` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A function that will be called if the client supports SNI TLS extension. Two arguments will be passed when called: `servername` and `callback`. `callback` is an error-first callback that takes two optional arguments: `error` and `ctx`. `ctx`, if provided, is a `SecureContext` instance. `tls.createSecureContext()` can be used to get a proper `SecureContext`. If `callback` is called with a falsy `ctx` argument, the default secure context of the server will be used. If `SNICallback` wasn't provided the default callback with high-level API will be used (see below).
    * `ticketKeys`: <Buffer> 48-bytes of cryptographically strong pseudorandom data. See Session Resumption for more information.
    * `pskCallback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) For TLS-PSK negotiation, see Pre-shared keys.
    * `pskIdentityHint` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) optional hint to send to a client to help with selecting the identity during TLS-PSK negotiation. Will be ignored in TLS 1.3. Upon failing to set pskIdentityHint `'tlsClientError'` will be emitted with `'ERR_TLS_PSK_SET_IDENTITY_HINT_FAILED'` code.
    * ...: Any `tls.createSecureContext()` option can be provided. For servers, the identity options (`pfx`, `key`/`cert`, or `pskCallback`) are usually required.
    * ...: Any `net.createServer()` option can be provided.
  * `secureConnectionListener` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: <tls.Server>

Creates a new `tls.Server`. The `secureConnectionListener`, if provided, is
automatically set as a listener for the `'secureConnection'` event.

The `ticketKeys` options is automatically shared between `node:cluster` module
workers.

The following illustrates a simple echo server:

    
    
    import { createServer } from 'node:tls';
    import { readFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    const options = {
      key: readFileSync('server-key.pem'),
      cert: readFileSync('server-cert.pem'),
    
      // This is necessary only if using client certificate authentication.
      requestCert: true,
    
      // This is necessary only if the client uses a self-signed certificate.
      ca: [ readFileSync('client-cert.pem') ],
    };
    
    const server = createServer(options, (socket) => {
      console.log('server connected',
                  socket.authorized ? 'authorized' : 'unauthorized');
      socket.write('welcome!\n');
      socket.setEncoding('utf8');
      socket.pipe(socket);
    });
    server.listen(8000, () => {
      console.log('server bound');
    });const { createServer } = require('node:tls');
    const { readFileSync } = require('node:fs');
    
    const options = {
      key: readFileSync('server-key.pem'),
      cert: readFileSync('server-cert.pem'),
    
      // This is necessary only if using client certificate authentication.
      requestCert: true,
    
      // This is necessary only if the client uses a self-signed certificate.
      ca: [ readFileSync('client-cert.pem') ],
    };
    
    const server = createServer(options, (socket) => {
      console.log('server connected',
                  socket.authorized ? 'authorized' : 'unauthorized');
      socket.write('welcome!\n');
      socket.setEncoding('utf8');
      socket.pipe(socket);
    });
    server.listen(8000, () => {
      console.log('server bound');
    });copy

To generate the certificate and key for this example, run:

    
    
    openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -sha256 -subj '/CN=localhost' \
      -keyout server-key.pem -out server-cert.pem copy

Then, to generate the `client-cert.pem` certificate for this example, run:

    
    
    openssl pkcs12 -certpbe AES-256-CBC -export -out client-cert.pem \
      -inkey server-key.pem -in server-cert.pem copy

The server can be tested by connecting to it using the example client from
`tls.connect()`.

### `tls.getCACertificates([type])`#

Added in: v23.10.0

  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) The type of CA certificates that will be returned. Valid values are `"default"`, `"system"`, `"bundled"` and `"extra"`. **Default:** `"default"`.
  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) An array of PEM-encoded certificates. The array may contain duplicates if the same certificate is repeatedly stored in multiple sources.

Returns an array containing the CA certificates from various sources,
depending on `type`:

  * `"default"`: return the CA certificates that will be used by the Node.js TLS clients by default. 
    * When `--use-bundled-ca` is enabled (default), or `--use-openssl-ca` is not enabled, this would include CA certificates from the bundled Mozilla CA store.
    * When `--use-system-ca` is enabled, this would also include certificates from the system's trusted store.
    * When `NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS` is used, this would also include certificates loaded from the specified file.
  * `"system"`: return the CA certificates that are loaded from the system's trusted store, according to rules set by `--use-system-ca`. This can be used to get the certificates from the system when `--use-system-ca` is not enabled.
  * `"bundled"`: return the CA certificates from the bundled Mozilla CA store. This would be the same as `tls.rootCertificates`.
  * `"extra"`: return the CA certificates loaded from `NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS`. It's an empty array if `NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS` is not set.

Added in: v0.10.2

### `tls.getCiphers()`#

Added in: v0.10.2

  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns an array with the names of the supported TLS ciphers. The names are
lower-case for historical reasons, but must be uppercased to be used in the
`ciphers` option of `tls.createSecureContext()`.

Not all supported ciphers are enabled by default. See Modifying the default
TLS cipher suite.

Cipher names that start with `'tls_'` are for TLSv1.3, all the others are for
TLSv1.2 and below.

    
    
    console.log(tls.getCiphers()); // ['aes128-gcm-sha256', 'aes128-sha', ...] copy

### `tls.rootCertificates`#

Added in: v12.3.0

  * [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

An immutable array of strings representing the root certificates (in PEM
format) from the bundled Mozilla CA store as supplied by the current Node.js
version.

The bundled CA store, as supplied by Node.js, is a snapshot of Mozilla CA
store that is fixed at release time. It is identical on all supported
platforms.

To get the actual CA certificates used by the current Node.js instance, which
may include certificates loaded from the system store (if `--use-system-ca` is
used) or loaded from a file indicated by `NODE_EXTRA_CA_CERTS`, use
`tls.getCACertificates()`.

### `tls.DEFAULT_ECDH_CURVE`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Default value changed to `'auto'`.  
v0.11.13 | Added in: v0.11.13  
  
The default curve name to use for ECDH key agreement in a tls server. The
default value is `'auto'`. See `tls.createSecureContext()` for further
information.

### `tls.DEFAULT_MAX_VERSION`#

Added in: v11.4.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The default value of the `maxVersion` option of `tls.createSecureContext()`. It can be assigned any of the supported TLS protocol versions, `'TLSv1.3'`, `'TLSv1.2'`, `'TLSv1.1'`, or `'TLSv1'`. **Default:** `'TLSv1.3'`, unless changed using CLI options. Using `--tls-max-v1.2` sets the default to `'TLSv1.2'`. Using `--tls-max-v1.3` sets the default to `'TLSv1.3'`. If multiple of the options are provided, the highest maximum is used.

### `tls.DEFAULT_MIN_VERSION`#

Added in: v11.4.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The default value of the `minVersion` option of `tls.createSecureContext()`. It can be assigned any of the supported TLS protocol versions, `'TLSv1.3'`, `'TLSv1.2'`, `'TLSv1.1'`, or `'TLSv1'`. Versions before TLSv1.2 may require downgrading the OpenSSL Security Level. **Default:** `'TLSv1.2'`, unless changed using CLI options. Using `--tls-min-v1.0` sets the default to `'TLSv1'`. Using `--tls-min-v1.1` sets the default to `'TLSv1.1'`. Using `--tls-min-v1.3` sets the default to `'TLSv1.3'`. If multiple of the options are provided, the lowest minimum is used.

### `tls.DEFAULT_CIPHERS`#

Added in: v19.8.0, v18.16.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The default value of the `ciphers` option of `tls.createSecureContext()`. It can be assigned any of the supported OpenSSL ciphers. Defaults to the content of `crypto.constants.defaultCoreCipherList`, unless changed using CLI options using `--tls-default-ciphers`.

## Trace events#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

**Source Code:**
[lib/trace_events.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/trace_events.js)

The `node:trace_events` module provides a mechanism to centralize tracing
information generated by V8, Node.js core, and userspace code.

Tracing can be enabled with the `--trace-event-categories` command-line flag
or by using the `node:trace_events` module. The `--trace-event-categories`
flag accepts a list of comma-separated category names.

The available categories are:

  * `node`: An empty placeholder.
  * `node.async_hooks`: Enables capture of detailed [`async_hooks`](async_hooks.html) trace data. The [`async_hooks`](async_hooks.html) events have a unique `asyncId` and a special `triggerId` `triggerAsyncId` property.
  * `node.bootstrap`: Enables capture of Node.js bootstrap milestones.
  * `node.console`: Enables capture of `console.time()` and `console.count()` output.
  * `node.threadpoolwork.sync`: Enables capture of trace data for threadpool synchronous operations, such as `blob`, `zlib`, `crypto` and `node_api`.
  * `node.threadpoolwork.async`: Enables capture of trace data for threadpool asynchronous operations, such as `blob`, `zlib`, `crypto` and `node_api`.
  * `node.dns.native`: Enables capture of trace data for DNS queries.
  * `node.net.native`: Enables capture of trace data for network.
  * `node.environment`: Enables capture of Node.js Environment milestones.
  * `node.fs.sync`: Enables capture of trace data for file system sync methods.
  * `node.fs_dir.sync`: Enables capture of trace data for file system sync directory methods.
  * `node.fs.async`: Enables capture of trace data for file system async methods.
  * `node.fs_dir.async`: Enables capture of trace data for file system async directory methods.
  * `node.perf`: Enables capture of [Performance API](perf_hooks.html) measurements. 
    * `node.perf.usertiming`: Enables capture of only Performance API User Timing measures and marks.
    * `node.perf.timerify`: Enables capture of only Performance API timerify measurements.
  * `node.promises.rejections`: Enables capture of trace data tracking the number of unhandled Promise rejections and handled-after-rejections.
  * `node.vm.script`: Enables capture of trace data for the `node:vm` module's `runInNewContext()`, `runInContext()`, and `runInThisContext()` methods.
  * `v8`: The [V8](v8.html) events are GC, compiling, and execution related.
  * `node.http`: Enables capture of trace data for http request / response.
  * `node.module_timer`: Enables capture of trace data for CJS Module loading.

By default the `node`, `node.async_hooks`, and `v8` categories are enabled.

    
    
    node --trace-event-categories v8,node,node.async_hooks server.js copy

Prior versions of Node.js required the use of the `--trace-events-enabled`
flag to enable trace events. This requirement has been removed. However, the
`--trace-events-enabled` flag _may_ still be used and will enable the `node`,
`node.async_hooks`, and `v8` trace event categories by default.

    
    
    node --trace-events-enabled
    
    # is equivalent to
    
    node --trace-event-categories v8,node,node.async_hooks copy

Alternatively, trace events may be enabled using the `node:trace_events`
module:

    
    
    import { createTracing } from 'node:trace_events';
    const tracing = createTracing({ categories: ['node.perf'] });
    tracing.enable();  // Enable trace event capture for the 'node.perf' category
    
    // do work
    
    tracing.disable();  // Disable trace event capture for the 'node.perf' categoryconst { createTracing } = require('node:trace_events');
    const tracing = createTracing({ categories: ['node.perf'] });
    tracing.enable();  // Enable trace event capture for the 'node.perf' category
    
    // do work
    
    tracing.disable();  // Disable trace event capture for the 'node.perf' categorycopy

Running Node.js with tracing enabled will produce log files that can be opened
in the [`chrome://tracing`](https://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/trace-
event-profiling-tool) tab of Chrome.

The logging file is by default called `node_trace.${rotation}.log`, where
`${rotation}` is an incrementing log-rotation id. The filepath pattern can be
specified with `--trace-event-file-pattern` that accepts a template string
that supports `${rotation}` and `${pid}`:

    
    
    node --trace-event-categories v8 --trace-event-file-pattern '${pid}-${rotation}.log' server.js copy

To guarantee that the log file is properly generated after signal events like
`SIGINT`, `SIGTERM`, or `SIGBREAK`, make sure to have the appropriate handlers
in your code, such as:

    
    
    process.on('SIGINT', function onSigint() {
      console.info('Received SIGINT.');
      process.exit(130);  // Or applicable exit code depending on OS and signal
    }); copy

The tracing system uses the same time source as the one used by
`process.hrtime()`. However the trace-event timestamps are expressed in
microseconds, unlike `process.hrtime()` which returns nanoseconds.

The features from this module are not available in `Worker` threads.

### The `node:trace_events` module#

Added in: v10.0.0

#### `Tracing` object#

Added in: v10.0.0

The `Tracing` object is used to enable or disable tracing for sets of
categories. Instances are created using the `trace_events.createTracing()`
method.

When created, the `Tracing` object is disabled. Calling the `tracing.enable()`
method adds the categories to the set of enabled trace event categories.
Calling `tracing.disable()` will remove the categories from the set of enabled
trace event categories.

##### `tracing.categories`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

A comma-separated list of the trace event categories covered by this `Tracing`
object.

##### `tracing.disable()`#

Added in: v10.0.0

Disables this `Tracing` object.

Only trace event categories _not_ covered by other enabled `Tracing` objects
and _not_ specified by the `--trace-event-categories` flag will be disabled.

    
    
    import { createTracing, getEnabledCategories } from 'node:trace_events';
    const t1 = createTracing({ categories: ['node', 'v8'] });
    const t2 = createTracing({ categories: ['node.perf', 'node'] });
    t1.enable();
    t2.enable();
    
    // Prints 'node,node.perf,v8'
    console.log(getEnabledCategories());
    
    t2.disable(); // Will only disable emission of the 'node.perf' category
    
    // Prints 'node,v8'
    console.log(getEnabledCategories());const { createTracing, getEnabledCategories } = require('node:trace_events');
    const t1 = createTracing({ categories: ['node', 'v8'] });
    const t2 = createTracing({ categories: ['node.perf', 'node'] });
    t1.enable();
    t2.enable();
    
    // Prints 'node,node.perf,v8'
    console.log(getEnabledCategories());
    
    t2.disable(); // Will only disable emission of the 'node.perf' category
    
    // Prints 'node,v8'
    console.log(getEnabledCategories());copy

##### `tracing.enable()`#

Added in: v10.0.0

Enables this `Tracing` object for the set of categories covered by the
`Tracing` object.

##### `tracing.enabled`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` only if the `Tracing` object has been enabled.

#### `trace_events.createTracing(options)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `categories` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) An array of trace category names. Values included in the array are coerced to a string when possible. An error will be thrown if the value cannot be coerced.
  * Returns: <Tracing>.

Creates and returns a `Tracing` object for the given set of `categories`.

    
    
    import { createTracing } from 'node:trace_events';
    const categories = ['node.perf', 'node.async_hooks'];
    const tracing = createTracing({ categories });
    tracing.enable();
    // do stuff
    tracing.disable();const { createTracing } = require('node:trace_events');
    const categories = ['node.perf', 'node.async_hooks'];
    const tracing = createTracing({ categories });
    tracing.enable();
    // do stuff
    tracing.disable();copy

#### `trace_events.getEnabledCategories()`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns a comma-separated list of all currently-enabled trace event
categories. The current set of enabled trace event categories is determined by
the _union_ of all currently-enabled `Tracing` objects and any categories
enabled using the `--trace-event-categories` flag.

Given the file `test.js` below, the command `node --trace-event-categories
node.perf test.js` will print `'node.async_hooks,node.perf'` to the console.

    
    
    import { createTracing, getEnabledCategories } from 'node:trace_events';
    const t1 = createTracing({ categories: ['node.async_hooks'] });
    const t2 = createTracing({ categories: ['node.perf'] });
    const t3 = createTracing({ categories: ['v8'] });
    
    t1.enable();
    t2.enable();
    
    console.log(getEnabledCategories());const { createTracing, getEnabledCategories } = require('node:trace_events');
    const t1 = createTracing({ categories: ['node.async_hooks'] });
    const t2 = createTracing({ categories: ['node.perf'] });
    const t3 = createTracing({ categories: ['v8'] });
    
    t1.enable();
    t2.enable();
    
    console.log(getEnabledCategories());copy

### Examples#

#### Collect trace events data by inspector#

    
    
    import { Session } from 'node:inspector';
    const session = new Session();
    session.connect();
    
    function post(message, data) {
      return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
        session.post(message, data, (err, result) => {
          if (err)
            reject(new Error(JSON.stringify(err)));
          else
            resolve(result);
        });
      });
    }
    
    async function collect() {
      const data = [];
      session.on('NodeTracing.dataCollected', (chunk) => data.push(chunk));
      session.on('NodeTracing.tracingComplete', () => {
        // done
      });
      const traceConfig = { includedCategories: ['v8'] };
      await post('NodeTracing.start', { traceConfig });
      // do something
      setTimeout(() => {
        post('NodeTracing.stop').then(() => {
          session.disconnect();
          console.log(data);
        });
      }, 1000);
    }
    
    collect();'use strict';
    
    const { Session } = require('node:inspector');
    const session = new Session();
    session.connect();
    
    function post(message, data) {
      return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
        session.post(message, data, (err, result) => {
          if (err)
            reject(new Error(JSON.stringify(err)));
          else
            resolve(result);
        });
      });
    }
    
    async function collect() {
      const data = [];
      session.on('NodeTracing.dataCollected', (chunk) => data.push(chunk));
      session.on('NodeTracing.tracingComplete', () => {
        // done
      });
      const traceConfig = { includedCategories: ['v8'] };
      await post('NodeTracing.start', { traceConfig });
      // do something
      setTimeout(() => {
        post('NodeTracing.stop').then(() => {
          session.disconnect();
          console.log(data);
        });
      }, 1000);
    }
    
    collect();copy

## TTY#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/tty.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/tty.js)

The `node:tty` module provides the `tty.ReadStream` and `tty.WriteStream`
classes. In most cases, it will not be necessary or possible to use this
module directly. However, it can be accessed using:

    
    
    const tty = require('node:tty'); copy

When Node.js detects that it is being run with a text terminal ("TTY")
attached, `process.stdin` will, by default, be initialized as an instance of
`tty.ReadStream` and both `process.stdout` and `process.stderr` will, by
default, be instances of `tty.WriteStream`. The preferred method of
determining whether Node.js is being run within a TTY context is to check that
the value of the `process.stdout.isTTY` property is `true`:

    
    
    $ node -p -e "Boolean(process.stdout.isTTY)"
    true
    $ node -p -e "Boolean(process.stdout.isTTY)" | cat
    false copy

In most cases, there should be little to no reason for an application to
manually create instances of the `tty.ReadStream` and `tty.WriteStream`
classes.

### Class: `tty.ReadStream`#

Added in: v0.5.8

  * Extends: <net.Socket>

Represents the readable side of a TTY. In normal circumstances `process.stdin`
will be the only `tty.ReadStream` instance in a Node.js process and there
should be no reason to create additional instances.

#### `readStream.isRaw`#

Added in: v0.7.7

A `boolean` that is `true` if the TTY is currently configured to operate as a
raw device.

This flag is always `false` when a process starts, even if the terminal is
operating in raw mode. Its value will change with subsequent calls to
`setRawMode`.

#### `readStream.isTTY`#

Added in: v0.5.8

A `boolean` that is always `true` for `tty.ReadStream` instances.

#### `readStream.setRawMode(mode)`#

Added in: v0.7.7

  * `mode` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, configures the `tty.ReadStream` to operate as a raw device. If `false`, configures the `tty.ReadStream` to operate in its default mode. The `readStream.isRaw` property will be set to the resulting mode.
  * Returns: [<this>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/this) The read stream instance.

Allows configuration of `tty.ReadStream` so that it operates as a raw device.

When in raw mode, input is always available character-by-character, not
including modifiers. Additionally, all special processing of characters by the
terminal is disabled, including echoing input characters. `Ctrl`+`C` will no
longer cause a `SIGINT` when in this mode.

### Class: `tty.WriteStream`#

Added in: v0.5.8

  * Extends: <net.Socket>

Represents the writable side of a TTY. In normal circumstances,
`process.stdout` and `process.stderr` will be the only `tty.WriteStream`
instances created for a Node.js process and there should be no reason to
create additional instances.

#### `new tty.ReadStream(fd[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v0.9.4 | The `options` argument is supported.  
v0.5.8 | Added in: v0.5.8  
  
  * `fd` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A file descriptor associated with a TTY.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Options passed to parent `net.Socket`, see `options` of `net.Socket` constructor.
  * Returns <tty.ReadStream>

Creates a `ReadStream` for `fd` associated with a TTY.

#### `new tty.WriteStream(fd)`#

Added in: v0.5.8

  * `fd` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A file descriptor associated with a TTY.
  * Returns <tty.WriteStream>

Creates a `WriteStream` for `fd` associated with a TTY.

#### Event: `'resize'`#

Added in: v0.7.7

The `'resize'` event is emitted whenever either of the `writeStream.columns`
or `writeStream.rows` properties have changed. No arguments are passed to the
listener callback when called.

    
    
    process.stdout.on('resize', () => {
      console.log('screen size has changed!');
      console.log(`${process.stdout.columns}x${process.stdout.rows}`);
    }); copy

#### `writeStream.clearLine(dir[, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.7.0 | The stream's write() callback and return value are exposed.  
v0.7.7 | Added in: v0.7.7  
  
  * `dir` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `-1`: to the left from cursor
    * `1`: to the right from cursor
    * `0`: the entire line
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Invoked once the operation completes.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `false` if the stream wishes for the calling code to wait for the `'drain'` event to be emitted before continuing to write additional data; otherwise `true`.

`writeStream.clearLine()` clears the current line of this `WriteStream` in a
direction identified by `dir`.

#### `writeStream.clearScreenDown([callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.7.0 | The stream's write() callback and return value are exposed.  
v0.7.7 | Added in: v0.7.7  
  
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Invoked once the operation completes.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `false` if the stream wishes for the calling code to wait for the `'drain'` event to be emitted before continuing to write additional data; otherwise `true`.

`writeStream.clearScreenDown()` clears this `WriteStream` from the current
cursor down.

#### `writeStream.columns`#

Added in: v0.7.7

A `number` specifying the number of columns the TTY currently has. This
property is updated whenever the `'resize'` event is emitted.

#### `writeStream.cursorTo(x[, y][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.7.0 | The stream's write() callback and return value are exposed.  
v0.7.7 | Added in: v0.7.7  
  
  * `x` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `y` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Invoked once the operation completes.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `false` if the stream wishes for the calling code to wait for the `'drain'` event to be emitted before continuing to write additional data; otherwise `true`.

`writeStream.cursorTo()` moves this `WriteStream`'s cursor to the specified
position.

#### `writeStream.getColorDepth([env])`#

Added in: v9.9.0

  * `env` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An object containing the environment variables to check. This enables simulating the usage of a specific terminal. **Default:** `process.env`.
  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns:

  * `1` for 2,
  * `4` for 16,
  * `8` for 256,
  * `24` for 16,777,216 colors supported.

Use this to determine what colors the terminal supports. Due to the nature of
colors in terminals it is possible to either have false positives or false
negatives. It depends on process information and the environment variables
that may lie about what terminal is used. It is possible to pass in an `env`
object to simulate the usage of a specific terminal. This can be useful to
check how specific environment settings behave.

To enforce a specific color support, use one of the below environment
settings.

  * 2 colors: `FORCE_COLOR = 0` (Disables colors)
  * 16 colors: `FORCE_COLOR = 1`
  * 256 colors: `FORCE_COLOR = 2`
  * 16,777,216 colors: `FORCE_COLOR = 3`

Disabling color support is also possible by using the `NO_COLOR` and
`NODE_DISABLE_COLORS` environment variables.

#### `writeStream.getWindowSize()`#

Added in: v0.7.7

  * Returns: [<number[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

`writeStream.getWindowSize()` returns the size of the TTY corresponding to
this `WriteStream`. The array is of the type `[numColumns, numRows]` where
`numColumns` and `numRows` represent the number of columns and rows in the
corresponding TTY.

#### `writeStream.hasColors([count][, env])`#

Added in: v11.13.0, v10.16.0

  * `count` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of colors that are requested (minimum 2). **Default:** 16.
  * `env` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An object containing the environment variables to check. This enables simulating the usage of a specific terminal. **Default:** `process.env`.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the `writeStream` supports at least as many colors as
provided in `count`. Minimum support is 2 (black and white).

This has the same false positives and negatives as described in
`writeStream.getColorDepth()`.

    
    
    process.stdout.hasColors();
    // Returns true or false depending on if `stdout` supports at least 16 colors.
    process.stdout.hasColors(256);
    // Returns true or false depending on if `stdout` supports at least 256 colors.
    process.stdout.hasColors({ TMUX: '1' });
    // Returns true.
    process.stdout.hasColors(2 ** 24, { TMUX: '1' });
    // Returns false (the environment setting pretends to support 2 ** 8 colors). copy

#### `writeStream.isTTY`#

Added in: v0.5.8

A `boolean` that is always `true`.

#### `writeStream.moveCursor(dx, dy[, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.7.0 | The stream's write() callback and return value are exposed.  
v0.7.7 | Added in: v0.7.7  
  
  * `dx` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `dy` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Invoked once the operation completes.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `false` if the stream wishes for the calling code to wait for the `'drain'` event to be emitted before continuing to write additional data; otherwise `true`.

`writeStream.moveCursor()` moves this `WriteStream`'s cursor _relative_ to its
current position.

#### `writeStream.rows`#

Added in: v0.7.7

A `number` specifying the number of rows the TTY currently has. This property
is updated whenever the `'resize'` event is emitted.

### `tty.isatty(fd)`#

Added in: v0.5.8

  * `fd` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A numeric file descriptor
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `tty.isatty()` method returns `true` if the given `fd` is associated with
a TTY and `false` if it is not, including whenever `fd` is not a non-negative
integer.

## UDP/datagram sockets#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/dgram.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/dgram.js)

The `node:dgram` module provides an implementation of UDP datagram sockets.

    
    
    import dgram from 'node:dgram';
    
    const server = dgram.createSocket('udp4');
    
    server.on('error', (err) => {
      console.error(`server error:\n${err.stack}`);
      server.close();
    });
    
    server.on('message', (msg, rinfo) => {
      console.log(`server got: ${msg} from ${rinfo.address}:${rinfo.port}`);
    });
    
    server.on('listening', () => {
      const address = server.address();
      console.log(`server listening ${address.address}:${address.port}`);
    });
    
    server.bind(41234);
    // Prints: server listening 0.0.0.0:41234const dgram = require('node:dgram');
    const server = dgram.createSocket('udp4');
    
    server.on('error', (err) => {
      console.error(`server error:\n${err.stack}`);
      server.close();
    });
    
    server.on('message', (msg, rinfo) => {
      console.log(`server got: ${msg} from ${rinfo.address}:${rinfo.port}`);
    });
    
    server.on('listening', () => {
      const address = server.address();
      console.log(`server listening ${address.address}:${address.port}`);
    });
    
    server.bind(41234);
    // Prints: server listening 0.0.0.0:41234copy

### Class: `dgram.Socket`#

Added in: v0.1.99

  * Extends: <EventEmitter>

Encapsulates the datagram functionality.

New instances of `dgram.Socket` are created using `dgram.createSocket()`. The
`new` keyword is not to be used to create `dgram.Socket` instances.

#### Event: `'close'`#

Added in: v0.1.99

The `'close'` event is emitted after a socket is closed with `close()`. Once
triggered, no new `'message'` events will be emitted on this socket.

#### Event: `'connect'`#

Added in: v12.0.0

The `'connect'` event is emitted after a socket is associated to a remote
address as a result of a successful `connect()` call.

#### Event: `'error'`#

Added in: v0.1.99

  * `exception` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

The `'error'` event is emitted whenever any error occurs. The event handler
function is passed a single `Error` object.

#### Event: `'listening'`#

Added in: v0.1.99

The `'listening'` event is emitted once the `dgram.Socket` is addressable and
can receive data. This happens either explicitly with `socket.bind()` or
implicitly the first time data is sent using `socket.send()`. Until the
`dgram.Socket` is listening, the underlying system resources do not exist and
calls such as `socket.address()` and `socket.setTTL()` will fail.

#### Event: `'message'`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.4.0 | The `family` property now returns a string instead of a number.  
v18.0.0 | The `family` property now returns a number instead of a string.  
v0.1.99 | Added in: v0.1.99  
  
The `'message'` event is emitted when a new datagram is available on a socket.
The event handler function is passed two arguments: `msg` and `rinfo`.

  * `msg` <Buffer> The message.
  * `rinfo` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Remote address information. 
    * `address` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The sender address.
    * `family` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The address family (`'IPv4'` or `'IPv6'`).
    * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The sender port.
    * `size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The message size.

If the source address of the incoming packet is an IPv6 link-local address,
the interface name is added to the `address`. For example, a packet received
on the `en0` interface might have the address field set to
`'fe80::2618:1234:ab11:3b9c%en0'`, where `'%en0'` is the interface name as a
zone ID suffix.

#### `socket.addMembership(multicastAddress[, multicastInterface])`#

Added in: v0.6.9

  * `multicastAddress` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `multicastInterface` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Tells the kernel to join a multicast group at the given `multicastAddress` and
`multicastInterface` using the `IP_ADD_MEMBERSHIP` socket option. If the
`multicastInterface` argument is not specified, the operating system will
choose one interface and will add membership to it. To add membership to every
available interface, call `addMembership` multiple times, once per interface.

When called on an unbound socket, this method will implicitly bind to a random
port, listening on all interfaces.

When sharing a UDP socket across multiple `cluster` workers, the
`socket.addMembership()` function must be called only once or an `EADDRINUSE`
error will occur:

    
    
    import cluster from 'node:cluster';
    import dgram from 'node:dgram';
    
    if (cluster.isPrimary) {
      cluster.fork(); // Works ok.
      cluster.fork(); // Fails with EADDRINUSE.
    } else {
      const s = dgram.createSocket('udp4');
      s.bind(1234, () => {
        s.addMembership('224.0.0.114');
      });
    }const cluster = require('node:cluster');
    const dgram = require('node:dgram');
    
    if (cluster.isPrimary) {
      cluster.fork(); // Works ok.
      cluster.fork(); // Fails with EADDRINUSE.
    } else {
      const s = dgram.createSocket('udp4');
      s.bind(1234, () => {
        s.addMembership('224.0.0.114');
      });
    }copy

#### `socket.addSourceSpecificMembership(sourceAddress, groupAddress[,
multicastInterface])`#

Added in: v13.1.0, v12.16.0

  * `sourceAddress` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `groupAddress` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `multicastInterface` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Tells the kernel to join a source-specific multicast channel at the given
`sourceAddress` and `groupAddress`, using the `multicastInterface` with the
`IP_ADD_SOURCE_MEMBERSHIP` socket option. If the `multicastInterface` argument
is not specified, the operating system will choose one interface and will add
membership to it. To add membership to every available interface, call
`socket.addSourceSpecificMembership()` multiple times, once per interface.

When called on an unbound socket, this method will implicitly bind to a random
port, listening on all interfaces.

#### `socket.address()`#

Added in: v0.1.99

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns an object containing the address information for a socket. For UDP
sockets, this object will contain `address`, `family`, and `port` properties.

This method throws `EBADF` if called on an unbound socket.

#### `socket.bind([port][, address][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v0.9.1 | The method was changed to an asynchronous execution model. Legacy code would need to be changed to pass a callback function to the method call.  
v0.1.99 | Added in: v0.1.99  
  
  * `port` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `address` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) with no parameters. Called when binding is complete.

For UDP sockets, causes the `dgram.Socket` to listen for datagram messages on
a named `port` and optional `address`. If `port` is not specified or is `0`,
the operating system will attempt to bind to a random port. If `address` is
not specified, the operating system will attempt to listen on all addresses.
Once binding is complete, a `'listening'` event is emitted and the optional
`callback` function is called.

Specifying both a `'listening'` event listener and passing a `callback` to the
`socket.bind()` method is not harmful but not very useful.

A bound datagram socket keeps the Node.js process running to receive datagram
messages.

If binding fails, an `'error'` event is generated. In rare case (e.g.
attempting to bind with a closed socket), an `Error` may be thrown.

Example of a UDP server listening on port 41234:

    
    
    import dgram from 'node:dgram';
    
    const server = dgram.createSocket('udp4');
    
    server.on('error', (err) => {
      console.error(`server error:\n${err.stack}`);
      server.close();
    });
    
    server.on('message', (msg, rinfo) => {
      console.log(`server got: ${msg} from ${rinfo.address}:${rinfo.port}`);
    });
    
    server.on('listening', () => {
      const address = server.address();
      console.log(`server listening ${address.address}:${address.port}`);
    });
    
    server.bind(41234);
    // Prints: server listening 0.0.0.0:41234const dgram = require('node:dgram');
    const server = dgram.createSocket('udp4');
    
    server.on('error', (err) => {
      console.error(`server error:\n${err.stack}`);
      server.close();
    });
    
    server.on('message', (msg, rinfo) => {
      console.log(`server got: ${msg} from ${rinfo.address}:${rinfo.port}`);
    });
    
    server.on('listening', () => {
      const address = server.address();
      console.log(`server listening ${address.address}:${address.port}`);
    });
    
    server.bind(41234);
    // Prints: server listening 0.0.0.0:41234copy

#### `socket.bind(options[, callback])`#

Added in: v0.11.14

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Required. Supports the following properties: 
    * `port` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `address` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `exclusive` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
    * `fd` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

For UDP sockets, causes the `dgram.Socket` to listen for datagram messages on
a named `port` and optional `address` that are passed as properties of an
`options` object passed as the first argument. If `port` is not specified or
is `0`, the operating system will attempt to bind to a random port. If
`address` is not specified, the operating system will attempt to listen on all
addresses. Once binding is complete, a `'listening'` event is emitted and the
optional `callback` function is called.

The `options` object may contain a `fd` property. When a `fd` greater than `0`
is set, it will wrap around an existing socket with the given file descriptor.
In this case, the properties of `port` and `address` will be ignored.

Specifying both a `'listening'` event listener and passing a `callback` to the
`socket.bind()` method is not harmful but not very useful.

The `options` object may contain an additional `exclusive` property that is
used when using `dgram.Socket` objects with the [`cluster`](cluster.html)
module. When `exclusive` is set to `false` (the default), cluster workers will
use the same underlying socket handle allowing connection handling duties to
be shared. When `exclusive` is `true`, however, the handle is not shared and
attempted port sharing results in an error. Creating a `dgram.Socket` with the
`reusePort` option set to `true` causes `exclusive` to always be `true` when
`socket.bind()` is called.

A bound datagram socket keeps the Node.js process running to receive datagram
messages.

If binding fails, an `'error'` event is generated. In rare case (e.g.
attempting to bind with a closed socket), an `Error` may be thrown.

An example socket listening on an exclusive port is shown below.

    
    
    socket.bind({
      address: 'localhost',
      port: 8000,
      exclusive: true,
    }); copy

#### `socket.close([callback])`#

Added in: v0.1.99

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Called when the socket has been closed.

Close the underlying socket and stop listening for data on it. If a callback
is provided, it is added as a listener for the `'close'` event.

#### `socket[Symbol.asyncDispose]()`#

Added in: v20.5.0, v18.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Calls `socket.close()` and returns a promise that fulfills when the socket has
closed.

#### `socket.connect(port[, address][, callback])`#

Added in: v12.0.0

  * `port` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `address` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Called when the connection is completed or on error.

Associates the `dgram.Socket` to a remote address and port. Every message sent
by this handle is automatically sent to that destination. Also, the socket
will only receive messages from that remote peer. Trying to call `connect()`
on an already connected socket will result in an
`ERR_SOCKET_DGRAM_IS_CONNECTED` exception. If `address` is not provided,
`'127.0.0.1'` (for `udp4` sockets) or `'::1'` (for `udp6` sockets) will be
used by default. Once the connection is complete, a `'connect'` event is
emitted and the optional `callback` function is called. In case of failure,
the `callback` is called or, failing this, an `'error'` event is emitted.

#### `socket.disconnect()`#

Added in: v12.0.0

A synchronous function that disassociates a connected `dgram.Socket` from its
remote address. Trying to call `disconnect()` on an unbound or already
disconnected socket will result in an `ERR_SOCKET_DGRAM_NOT_CONNECTED`
exception.

#### `socket.dropMembership(multicastAddress[, multicastInterface])`#

Added in: v0.6.9

  * `multicastAddress` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `multicastInterface` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Instructs the kernel to leave a multicast group at `multicastAddress` using
the `IP_DROP_MEMBERSHIP` socket option. This method is automatically called by
the kernel when the socket is closed or the process terminates, so most apps
will never have reason to call this.

If `multicastInterface` is not specified, the operating system will attempt to
drop membership on all valid interfaces.

#### `socket.dropSourceSpecificMembership(sourceAddress, groupAddress[,
multicastInterface])`#

Added in: v13.1.0, v12.16.0

  * `sourceAddress` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `groupAddress` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `multicastInterface` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Instructs the kernel to leave a source-specific multicast channel at the given
`sourceAddress` and `groupAddress` using the `IP_DROP_SOURCE_MEMBERSHIP`
socket option. This method is automatically called by the kernel when the
socket is closed or the process terminates, so most apps will never have
reason to call this.

If `multicastInterface` is not specified, the operating system will attempt to
drop membership on all valid interfaces.

#### `socket.getRecvBufferSize()`#

Added in: v8.7.0

  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the `SO_RCVBUF` socket receive buffer size in bytes.

This method throws `ERR_SOCKET_BUFFER_SIZE` if called on an unbound socket.

#### `socket.getSendBufferSize()`#

Added in: v8.7.0

  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) the `SO_SNDBUF` socket send buffer size in bytes.

This method throws `ERR_SOCKET_BUFFER_SIZE` if called on an unbound socket.

#### `socket.getSendQueueSize()`#

Added in: v18.8.0, v16.19.0

  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes queued for sending.

#### `socket.getSendQueueCount()`#

Added in: v18.8.0, v16.19.0

  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of send requests currently in the queue awaiting to be processed.

#### `socket.ref()`#

Added in: v0.9.1

  * Returns: <dgram.Socket>

By default, binding a socket will cause it to block the Node.js process from
exiting as long as the socket is open. The `socket.unref()` method can be used
to exclude the socket from the reference counting that keeps the Node.js
process active. The `socket.ref()` method adds the socket back to the
reference counting and restores the default behavior.

Calling `socket.ref()` multiples times will have no additional effect.

The `socket.ref()` method returns a reference to the socket so calls can be
chained.

#### `socket.remoteAddress()`#

Added in: v12.0.0

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns an object containing the `address`, `family`, and `port` of the remote
endpoint. This method throws an `ERR_SOCKET_DGRAM_NOT_CONNECTED` exception if
the socket is not connected.

#### `socket.send(msg[, offset, length][, port][, address][, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.0.0 | The `address` parameter now only accepts a `string`, `null` or `undefined`.  
v14.5.0, v12.19.0 | The `msg` parameter can now be any `TypedArray` or `DataView`.  
v12.0.0 | Added support for sending data on connected sockets.  
v8.0.0 | The `msg` parameter can be an `Uint8Array` now.  
v8.0.0 | The `address` parameter is always optional now.  
v6.0.0 | On success, `callback` will now be called with an `error` argument of `null` rather than `0`.  
v5.7.0 | The `msg` parameter can be an array now. Also, the `offset` and `length` parameters are optional now.  
v0.1.99 | Added in: v0.1.99  
  
  * `msg` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) Message to be sent.
  * `offset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Offset in the buffer where the message starts.
  * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Number of bytes in the message.
  * `port` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Destination port.
  * `address` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Destination host name or IP address.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Called when the message has been sent.

Broadcasts a datagram on the socket. For connectionless sockets, the
destination `port` and `address` must be specified. Connected sockets, on the
other hand, will use their associated remote endpoint, so the `port` and
`address` arguments must not be set.

The `msg` argument contains the message to be sent. Depending on its type,
different behavior can apply. If `msg` is a `Buffer`, any `TypedArray` or a
`DataView`, the `offset` and `length` specify the offset within the `Buffer`
where the message begins and the number of bytes in the message, respectively.
If `msg` is a `String`, then it is automatically converted to a `Buffer` with
`'utf8'` encoding. With messages that contain multi-byte characters, `offset`
and `length` will be calculated with respect to byte length and not the
character position. If `msg` is an array, `offset` and `length` must not be
specified.

The `address` argument is a string. If the value of `address` is a host name,
DNS will be used to resolve the address of the host. If `address` is not
provided or otherwise nullish, `'127.0.0.1'` (for `udp4` sockets) or `'::1'`
(for `udp6` sockets) will be used by default.

If the socket has not been previously bound with a call to `bind`, the socket
is assigned a random port number and is bound to the "all interfaces" address
(`'0.0.0.0'` for `udp4` sockets, `'::0'` for `udp6` sockets.)

An optional `callback` function may be specified to as a way of reporting DNS
errors or for determining when it is safe to reuse the `buf` object. DNS
lookups delay the time to send for at least one tick of the Node.js event
loop.

The only way to know for sure that the datagram has been sent is by using a
`callback`. If an error occurs and a `callback` is given, the error will be
passed as the first argument to the `callback`. If a `callback` is not given,
the error is emitted as an `'error'` event on the `socket` object.

Offset and length are optional but both _must_ be set if either are used. They
are supported only when the first argument is a `Buffer`, a `TypedArray`, or a
`DataView`.

This method throws `ERR_SOCKET_BAD_PORT` if called on an unbound socket.

Example of sending a UDP packet to a port on `localhost`;

    
    
    import dgram from 'node:dgram';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const message = Buffer.from('Some bytes');
    const client = dgram.createSocket('udp4');
    client.send(message, 41234, 'localhost', (err) => {
      client.close();
    });const dgram = require('node:dgram');
    const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const message = Buffer.from('Some bytes');
    const client = dgram.createSocket('udp4');
    client.send(message, 41234, 'localhost', (err) => {
      client.close();
    });copy

Example of sending a UDP packet composed of multiple buffers to a port on
`127.0.0.1`;

    
    
    import dgram from 'node:dgram';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from('Some ');
    const buf2 = Buffer.from('bytes');
    const client = dgram.createSocket('udp4');
    client.send([buf1, buf2], 41234, (err) => {
      client.close();
    });const dgram = require('node:dgram');
    const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const buf1 = Buffer.from('Some ');
    const buf2 = Buffer.from('bytes');
    const client = dgram.createSocket('udp4');
    client.send([buf1, buf2], 41234, (err) => {
      client.close();
    });copy

Sending multiple buffers might be faster or slower depending on the
application and operating system. Run benchmarks to determine the optimal
strategy on a case-by-case basis. Generally speaking, however, sending
multiple buffers is faster.

Example of sending a UDP packet using a socket connected to a port on
`localhost`:

    
    
    import dgram from 'node:dgram';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const message = Buffer.from('Some bytes');
    const client = dgram.createSocket('udp4');
    client.connect(41234, 'localhost', (err) => {
      client.send(message, (err) => {
        client.close();
      });
    });const dgram = require('node:dgram');
    const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const message = Buffer.from('Some bytes');
    const client = dgram.createSocket('udp4');
    client.connect(41234, 'localhost', (err) => {
      client.send(message, (err) => {
        client.close();
      });
    });copy

##### Note about UDP datagram size#

The maximum size of an IPv4/v6 datagram depends on the `MTU` (Maximum
Transmission Unit) and on the `Payload Length` field size.

  * The `Payload Length` field is 16 bits wide, which means that a normal payload cannot exceed 64K octets including the internet header and data (65,507 bytes = 65,535 − 8 bytes UDP header − 20 bytes IP header); this is generally true for loopback interfaces, but such long datagram messages are impractical for most hosts and networks.

  * The `MTU` is the largest size a given link layer technology can support for datagram messages. For any link, IPv4 mandates a minimum `MTU` of 68 octets, while the recommended `MTU` for IPv4 is 576 (typically recommended as the `MTU` for dial-up type applications), whether they arrive whole or in fragments.

For IPv6, the minimum `MTU` is 1280 octets. However, the mandatory minimum
fragment reassembly buffer size is 1500 octets. The value of 68 octets is very
small, since most current link layer technologies, like Ethernet, have a
minimum `MTU` of 1500.

It is impossible to know in advance the MTU of each link through which a
packet might travel. Sending a datagram greater than the receiver `MTU` will
not work because the packet will get silently dropped without informing the
source that the data did not reach its intended recipient.

#### `socket.setBroadcast(flag)`#

Added in: v0.6.9

  * `flag` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Sets or clears the `SO_BROADCAST` socket option. When set to `true`, UDP
packets may be sent to a local interface's broadcast address.

This method throws `EBADF` if called on an unbound socket.

#### `socket.setMulticastInterface(multicastInterface)`#

Added in: v8.6.0

  * `multicastInterface` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

_All references to scope in this section are referring to[IPv6 Zone
Indexes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPv6_address#Scoped_literal_IPv6_addresses),
which are defined by [RFC 4007](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4007). In
string form, an IP with a scope index is written as `'IP%scope'` where scope
is an interface name or interface number._

Sets the default outgoing multicast interface of the socket to a chosen
interface or back to system interface selection. The `multicastInterface` must
be a valid string representation of an IP from the socket's family.

For IPv4 sockets, this should be the IP configured for the desired physical
interface. All packets sent to multicast on the socket will be sent on the
interface determined by the most recent successful use of this call.

For IPv6 sockets, `multicastInterface` should include a scope to indicate the
interface as in the examples that follow. In IPv6, individual `send` calls can
also use explicit scope in addresses, so only packets sent to a multicast
address without specifying an explicit scope are affected by the most recent
successful use of this call.

This method throws `EBADF` if called on an unbound socket.

##### Example: IPv6 outgoing multicast interface#

On most systems, where scope format uses the interface name:

    
    
    const socket = dgram.createSocket('udp6');
    
    socket.bind(1234, () => {
      socket.setMulticastInterface('::%eth1');
    }); copy

On Windows, where scope format uses an interface number:

    
    
    const socket = dgram.createSocket('udp6');
    
    socket.bind(1234, () => {
      socket.setMulticastInterface('::%2');
    }); copy

##### Example: IPv4 outgoing multicast interface#

All systems use an IP of the host on the desired physical interface:

    
    
    const socket = dgram.createSocket('udp4');
    
    socket.bind(1234, () => {
      socket.setMulticastInterface('10.0.0.2');
    }); copy

##### Call results#

A call on a socket that is not ready to send or no longer open may throw a
_Not running_ `Error`.

If `multicastInterface` can not be parsed into an IP then an _EINVAL_ `System
Error` is thrown.

On IPv4, if `multicastInterface` is a valid address but does not match any
interface, or if the address does not match the family then a `System Error`
such as `EADDRNOTAVAIL` or `EPROTONOSUP` is thrown.

On IPv6, most errors with specifying or omitting scope will result in the
socket continuing to use (or returning to) the system's default interface
selection.

A socket's address family's ANY address (IPv4 `'0.0.0.0'` or IPv6 `'::'`) can
be used to return control of the sockets default outgoing interface to the
system for future multicast packets.

#### `socket.setMulticastLoopback(flag)`#

Added in: v0.3.8

  * `flag` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Sets or clears the `IP_MULTICAST_LOOP` socket option. When set to `true`,
multicast packets will also be received on the local interface.

This method throws `EBADF` if called on an unbound socket.

#### `socket.setMulticastTTL(ttl)`#

Added in: v0.3.8

  * `ttl` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Sets the `IP_MULTICAST_TTL` socket option. While TTL generally stands for
"Time to Live", in this context it specifies the number of IP hops that a
packet is allowed to travel through, specifically for multicast traffic. Each
router or gateway that forwards a packet decrements the TTL. If the TTL is
decremented to 0 by a router, it will not be forwarded.

The `ttl` argument may be between 0 and 255. The default on most systems is
`1`.

This method throws `EBADF` if called on an unbound socket.

#### `socket.setRecvBufferSize(size)`#

Added in: v8.7.0

  * `size` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Sets the `SO_RCVBUF` socket option. Sets the maximum socket receive buffer in
bytes.

This method throws `ERR_SOCKET_BUFFER_SIZE` if called on an unbound socket.

#### `socket.setSendBufferSize(size)`#

Added in: v8.7.0

  * `size` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Sets the `SO_SNDBUF` socket option. Sets the maximum socket send buffer in
bytes.

This method throws `ERR_SOCKET_BUFFER_SIZE` if called on an unbound socket.

#### `socket.setTTL(ttl)`#

Added in: v0.1.101

  * `ttl` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Sets the `IP_TTL` socket option. While TTL generally stands for "Time to
Live", in this context it specifies the number of IP hops that a packet is
allowed to travel through. Each router or gateway that forwards a packet
decrements the TTL. If the TTL is decremented to 0 by a router, it will not be
forwarded. Changing TTL values is typically done for network probes or when
multicasting.

The `ttl` argument may be between 1 and 255. The default on most systems is
64.

This method throws `EBADF` if called on an unbound socket.

#### `socket.unref()`#

Added in: v0.9.1

  * Returns: <dgram.Socket>

By default, binding a socket will cause it to block the Node.js process from
exiting as long as the socket is open. The `socket.unref()` method can be used
to exclude the socket from the reference counting that keeps the Node.js
process active, allowing the process to exit even if the socket is still
listening.

Calling `socket.unref()` multiple times will have no additional effect.

The `socket.unref()` method returns a reference to the socket so calls can be
chained.

### `node:dgram` module functions#

#### `dgram.createSocket(options[, callback])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.1.0 | The `reusePort` option is supported.  
v15.8.0 | AbortSignal support was added.  
v11.4.0 | The `ipv6Only` option is supported.  
v8.7.0 | The `recvBufferSize` and `sendBufferSize` options are supported now.  
v8.6.0 | The `lookup` option is supported.  
v0.11.13 | Added in: v0.11.13  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Available options are: 
    * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The family of socket. Must be either `'udp4'` or `'udp6'`. Required.
    * `reuseAddr` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true` `socket.bind()` will reuse the address, even if another process has already bound a socket on it, but only one socket can receive the data. **Default:** `false`.
    * `reusePort` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true` `socket.bind()` will reuse the port, even if another process has already bound a socket on it. Incoming datagrams are distributed to listening sockets. The option is available only on some platforms, such as Linux 3.9+, DragonFlyBSD 3.6+, FreeBSD 12.0+, Solaris 11.4, and AIX 7.2.5+. On unsupported platforms this option raises an an error when the socket is bound. **Default:** `false`.
    * `ipv6Only` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Setting `ipv6Only` to `true` will disable dual-stack support, i.e., binding to address `::` won't make `0.0.0.0` be bound. **Default:** `false`.
    * `recvBufferSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the `SO_RCVBUF` socket value.
    * `sendBufferSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Sets the `SO_SNDBUF` socket value.
    * `lookup` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Custom lookup function. **Default:** `dns.lookup()`.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> An AbortSignal that may be used to close a socket.
    * `receiveBlockList` <net.BlockList> `receiveBlockList` can be used for discarding inbound datagram to specific IP addresses, IP ranges, or IP subnets. This does not work if the server is behind a reverse proxy, NAT, etc. because the address checked against the blocklist is the address of the proxy, or the one specified by the NAT.
    * `sendBlockList` <net.BlockList> `sendBlockList` can be used for disabling outbound access to specific IP addresses, IP ranges, or IP subnets.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Attached as a listener for `'message'` events. Optional.
  * Returns: <dgram.Socket>

Creates a `dgram.Socket` object. Once the socket is created, calling
`socket.bind()` will instruct the socket to begin listening for datagram
messages. When `address` and `port` are not passed to `socket.bind()` the
method will bind the socket to the "all interfaces" address on a random port
(it does the right thing for both `udp4` and `udp6` sockets). The bound
address and port can be retrieved using `socket.address().address` and
`socket.address().port`.

If the `signal` option is enabled, calling `.abort()` on the corresponding
`AbortController` is similar to calling `.close()` on the socket:

    
    
    const controller = new AbortController();
    const { signal } = controller;
    const server = dgram.createSocket({ type: 'udp4', signal });
    server.on('message', (msg, rinfo) => {
      console.log(`server got: ${msg} from ${rinfo.address}:${rinfo.port}`);
    });
    // Later, when you want to close the server.
    controller.abort(); copy

#### `dgram.createSocket(type[, callback])`#

Added in: v0.1.99

  * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Either `'udp4'` or `'udp6'`.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Attached as a listener to `'message'` events.
  * Returns: <dgram.Socket>

Creates a `dgram.Socket` object of the specified `type`.

Once the socket is created, calling `socket.bind()` will instruct the socket
to begin listening for datagram messages. When `address` and `port` are not
passed to `socket.bind()` the method will bind the socket to the "all
interfaces" address on a random port (it does the right thing for both `udp4`
and `udp6` sockets). The bound address and port can be retrieved using
`socket.address().address` and `socket.address().port`.

## URL#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/url.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/url.js)

The `node:url` module provides utilities for URL resolution and parsing. It
can be accessed using:

    
    
    import url from 'node:url';const url = require('node:url');copy

### URL strings and URL objects#

A URL string is a structured string containing multiple meaningful components.
When parsed, a URL object is returned containing properties for each of these
components.

The `node:url` module provides two APIs for working with URLs: a legacy API
that is Node.js specific, and a newer API that implements the same [WHATWG URL
Standard](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/) used by web browsers.

A comparison between the WHATWG and legacy APIs is provided below. Above the
URL `'https://user:[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-
protection):8080/p/a/t/h?query=string#hash'`, properties of an object returned
by the legacy `url.parse()` are shown. Below it are properties of a WHATWG
`URL` object.

WHATWG URL's `origin` property includes `protocol` and `host`, but not
`username` or `password`.

    
    
    ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
    │                                              href                                              │
    ├──────────┬──┬─────────────────────┬────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────┬───────┤
    │ protocol │  │        auth         │          host          │           path            │ hash  │
    │          │  │                     ├─────────────────┬──────┼──────────┬────────────────┤       │
    │          │  │                     │    hostname     │ port │ pathname │     search     │       │
    │          │  │                     │                 │      │          ├─┬──────────────┤       │
    │          │  │                     │                 │      │          │ │    query     │       │
    "  https:   //    user   :   pass   @ sub.example.com : 8080   /p/a/t/h  ?  query=string   #hash "
    │          │  │          │          │    hostname     │ port │          │                │       │
    │          │  │          │          ├─────────────────┴──────┤          │                │       │
    │ protocol │  │ username │ password │          host          │          │                │       │
    ├──────────┴──┼──────────┴──────────┼────────────────────────┤          │                │       │
    │   origin    │                     │         origin         │ pathname │     search     │ hash  │
    ├─────────────┴─────────────────────┴────────────────────────┴──────────┴────────────────┴───────┤
    │                                              href                                              │
    └────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
    (All spaces in the "" line should be ignored. They are purely for formatting.) copy

Parsing the URL string using the WHATWG API:

    
    
    const myURL =
      new URL('https://user:[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection):8080/p/a/t/h?query=string#hash'); copy

Parsing the URL string using the legacy API:

    
    
    import url from 'node:url';
    const myURL =
      url.parse('https://user:[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection):8080/p/a/t/h?query=string#hash');const url = require('node:url');
    const myURL =
      url.parse('https://user:[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection):8080/p/a/t/h?query=string#hash');copy

#### Constructing a URL from component parts and getting the constructed
string#

It is possible to construct a WHATWG URL from component parts using either the
property setters or a template literal string:

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('https://example.org');
    myURL.pathname = '/a/b/c';
    myURL.search = '?d=e';
    myURL.hash = '#fgh'; copy
    
    
    const pathname = '/a/b/c';
    const search = '?d=e';
    const hash = '#fgh';
    const myURL = new URL(`https://example.org${pathname}${search}${hash}`); copy

To get the constructed URL string, use the `href` property accessor:

    
    
    console.log(myURL.href); copy

### The WHATWG URL API#

#### Class: `URL`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | The class is now available on the global object.  
v7.0.0, v6.13.0 | Added in: v7.0.0, v6.13.0  
  
Browser-compatible `URL` class, implemented by following the WHATWG URL
Standard. [Examples of parsed URLs](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#example-url-
parsing) may be found in the Standard itself. The `URL` class is also
available on the global object.

In accordance with browser conventions, all properties of `URL` objects are
implemented as getters and setters on the class prototype, rather than as data
properties on the object itself. Thus, unlike legacy `urlObject`s, using the
`delete` keyword on any properties of `URL` objects (e.g. `delete
myURL.protocol`, `delete myURL.pathname`, etc) has no effect but will still
return `true`.

##### `new URL(input[, base])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0, v18.17.0 | ICU requirement is removed.  
  
  * `input` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The absolute or relative input URL to parse. If `input` is relative, then `base` is required. If `input` is absolute, the `base` is ignored. If `input` is not a string, it is [converted to a string](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-tostring) first.
  * `base` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The base URL to resolve against if the `input` is not absolute. If `base` is not a string, it is [converted to a string](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-tostring) first.

Creates a new `URL` object by parsing the `input` relative to the `base`. If
`base` is passed as a string, it will be parsed equivalent to `new URL(base)`.

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('/foo', 'https://example.org/');
    // https://example.org/foo copy

The URL constructor is accessible as a property on the global object. It can
also be imported from the built-in url module:

    
    
    import { URL } from 'node:url';
    console.log(URL === globalThis.URL); // Prints 'true'.console.log(URL === require('node:url').URL); // Prints 'true'.copy

A `TypeError` will be thrown if the `input` or `base` are not valid URLs. Note
that an effort will be made to coerce the given values into strings. For
instance:

    
    
    const myURL = new URL({ toString: () => 'https://example.org/' });
    // https://example.org/ copy

Unicode characters appearing within the host name of `input` will be
automatically converted to ASCII using the
[Punycode](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5891#section-4.4) algorithm.

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('https://測試');
    // https://xn--g6w251d/ copy

In cases where it is not known in advance if `input` is an absolute URL and a
`base` is provided, it is advised to validate that the `origin` of the `URL`
object is what is expected.

    
    
    let myURL = new URL('http://Example.com/', 'https://example.org/');
    // http://example.com/
    
    myURL = new URL('https://Example.com/', 'https://example.org/');
    // https://example.com/
    
    myURL = new URL('foo://Example.com/', 'https://example.org/');
    // foo://Example.com/
    
    myURL = new URL('http:Example.com/', 'https://example.org/');
    // http://example.com/
    
    myURL = new URL('https:Example.com/', 'https://example.org/');
    // https://example.org/Example.com/
    
    myURL = new URL('foo:Example.com/', 'https://example.org/');
    // foo:Example.com/ copy

##### `url.hash`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Gets and sets the fragment portion of the URL.

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('https://example.org/foo#bar');
    console.log(myURL.hash);
    // Prints #bar
    
    myURL.hash = 'baz';
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://example.org/foo#baz copy

Invalid URL characters included in the value assigned to the `hash` property
are percent-encoded. The selection of which characters to percent-encode may
vary somewhat from what the `url.parse()` and `url.format()` methods would
produce.

##### `url.host`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Gets and sets the host portion of the URL.

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('https://example.org:81/foo');
    console.log(myURL.host);
    // Prints example.org:81
    
    myURL.host = 'example.com:82';
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://example.com:82/foo copy

Invalid host values assigned to the `host` property are ignored.

##### `url.hostname`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Gets and sets the host name portion of the URL. The key difference between
`url.host` and `url.hostname` is that `url.hostname` does _not_ include the
port.

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('https://example.org:81/foo');
    console.log(myURL.hostname);
    // Prints example.org
    
    // Setting the hostname does not change the port
    myURL.hostname = 'example.com';
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://example.com:81/foo
    
    // Use myURL.host to change the hostname and port
    myURL.host = 'example.org:82';
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://example.org:82/foo copy

Invalid host name values assigned to the `hostname` property are ignored.

##### `url.href`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Gets and sets the serialized URL.

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('https://example.org/foo');
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://example.org/foo
    
    myURL.href = 'https://example.com/bar';
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://example.com/bar copy

Getting the value of the `href` property is equivalent to calling
`url.toString()`.

Setting the value of this property to a new value is equivalent to creating a
new `URL` object using `new URL(value)`. Each of the `URL` object's properties
will be modified.

If the value assigned to the `href` property is not a valid URL, a `TypeError`
will be thrown.

##### `url.origin`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The scheme "gopher" is no longer special and `url.origin` now returns `'null'` for it.  
  
  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Gets the read-only serialization of the URL's origin.

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('https://example.org/foo/bar?baz');
    console.log(myURL.origin);
    // Prints https://example.org copy
    
    
    const idnURL = new URL('https://測試');
    console.log(idnURL.origin);
    // Prints https://xn--g6w251d
    
    console.log(idnURL.hostname);
    // Prints xn--g6w251d copy

##### `url.password`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Gets and sets the password portion of the URL.

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('https://abc:[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)');
    console.log(myURL.password);
    // Prints xyz
    
    myURL.password = '123';
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://abc:[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)/ copy

Invalid URL characters included in the value assigned to the `password`
property are percent-encoded. The selection of which characters to percent-
encode may vary somewhat from what the `url.parse()` and `url.format()`
methods would produce.

##### `url.pathname`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Gets and sets the path portion of the URL.

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('https://example.org/abc/xyz?123');
    console.log(myURL.pathname);
    // Prints /abc/xyz
    
    myURL.pathname = '/abcdef';
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://example.org/abcdef?123 copy

Invalid URL characters included in the value assigned to the `pathname`
property are percent-encoded. The selection of which characters to percent-
encode may vary somewhat from what the `url.parse()` and `url.format()`
methods would produce.

##### `url.port`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The scheme "gopher" is no longer special.  
  
  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Gets and sets the port portion of the URL.

The port value may be a number or a string containing a number in the range
`0` to `65535` (inclusive). Setting the value to the default port of the `URL`
objects given `protocol` will result in the `port` value becoming the empty
string (`''`).

The port value can be an empty string in which case the port depends on the
protocol/scheme:

protocol| port  
---|---  
"ftp"| 21  
"file"|  
"http"| 80  
"https"| 443  
"ws"| 80  
"wss"| 443  
  
Upon assigning a value to the port, the value will first be converted to a
string using `.toString()`.

If that string is invalid but it begins with a number, the leading number is
assigned to `port`. If the number lies outside the range denoted above, it is
ignored.

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('https://example.org:8888');
    console.log(myURL.port);
    // Prints 8888
    
    // Default ports are automatically transformed to the empty string
    // (HTTPS protocol's default port is 443)
    myURL.port = '443';
    console.log(myURL.port);
    // Prints the empty string
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://example.org/
    
    myURL.port = 1234;
    console.log(myURL.port);
    // Prints 1234
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://example.org:1234/
    
    // Completely invalid port strings are ignored
    myURL.port = 'abcd';
    console.log(myURL.port);
    // Prints 1234
    
    // Leading numbers are treated as a port number
    myURL.port = '5678abcd';
    console.log(myURL.port);
    // Prints 5678
    
    // Non-integers are truncated
    myURL.port = 1234.5678;
    console.log(myURL.port);
    // Prints 1234
    
    // Out-of-range numbers which are not represented in scientific notation
    // will be ignored.
    myURL.port = 1e10; // 10000000000, will be range-checked as described below
    console.log(myURL.port);
    // Prints 1234 copy

Numbers which contain a decimal point, such as floating-point numbers or
numbers in scientific notation, are not an exception to this rule. Leading
numbers up to the decimal point will be set as the URL's port, assuming they
are valid:

    
    
    myURL.port = 4.567e21;
    console.log(myURL.port);
    // Prints 4 (because it is the leading number in the string '4.567e21') copy

##### `url.protocol`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Gets and sets the protocol portion of the URL.

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('https://example.org');
    console.log(myURL.protocol);
    // Prints https:
    
    myURL.protocol = 'ftp';
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints ftp://example.org/ copy

Invalid URL protocol values assigned to the `protocol` property are ignored.

###### Special schemes#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.0.0 | The scheme "gopher" is no longer special.  
  
The [WHATWG URL Standard](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/) considers a handful of
URL protocol schemes to be _special_ in terms of how they are parsed and
serialized. When a URL is parsed using one of these special protocols, the
`url.protocol` property may be changed to another special protocol but cannot
be changed to a non-special protocol, and vice versa.

For instance, changing from `http` to `https` works:

    
    
    const u = new URL('http://example.org');
    u.protocol = 'https';
    console.log(u.href);
    // https://example.org/ copy

However, changing from `http` to a hypothetical `fish` protocol does not
because the new protocol is not special.

    
    
    const u = new URL('http://example.org');
    u.protocol = 'fish';
    console.log(u.href);
    // http://example.org/ copy

Likewise, changing from a non-special protocol to a special protocol is also
not permitted:

    
    
    const u = new URL('fish://example.org');
    u.protocol = 'http';
    console.log(u.href);
    // fish://example.org copy

According to the WHATWG URL Standard, special protocol schemes are `ftp`,
`file`, `http`, `https`, `ws`, and `wss`.

##### `url.search`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Gets and sets the serialized query portion of the URL.

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('https://example.org/abc?123');
    console.log(myURL.search);
    // Prints ?123
    
    myURL.search = 'abc=xyz';
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://example.org/abc?abc=xyz copy

Any invalid URL characters appearing in the value assigned the `search`
property will be percent-encoded. The selection of which characters to
percent-encode may vary somewhat from what the `url.parse()` and
`url.format()` methods would produce.

##### `url.searchParams`#

  * <URLSearchParams>

Gets the `URLSearchParams` object representing the query parameters of the
URL. This property is read-only but the `URLSearchParams` object it provides
can be used to mutate the URL instance; to replace the entirety of query
parameters of the URL, use the `url.search` setter. See `URLSearchParams`
documentation for details.

Use care when using `.searchParams` to modify the `URL` because, per the
WHATWG specification, the `URLSearchParams` object uses different rules to
determine which characters to percent-encode. For instance, the `URL` object
will not percent encode the ASCII tilde (`~`) character, while
`URLSearchParams` will always encode it:

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('https://example.org/abc?foo=~bar');
    
    console.log(myURL.search);  // prints ?foo=~bar
    
    // Modify the URL via searchParams...
    myURL.searchParams.sort();
    
    console.log(myURL.search);  // prints ?foo=%7Ebar copy

##### `url.username`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Gets and sets the username portion of the URL.

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('https://abc:[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)');
    console.log(myURL.username);
    // Prints abc
    
    myURL.username = '123';
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://123:[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)/ copy

Any invalid URL characters appearing in the value assigned the `username`
property will be percent-encoded. The selection of which characters to
percent-encode may vary somewhat from what the `url.parse()` and
`url.format()` methods would produce.

##### `url.toString()`#

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `toString()` method on the `URL` object returns the serialized URL. The
value returned is equivalent to that of `url.href` and `url.toJSON()`.

##### `url.toJSON()`#

Added in: v7.7.0, v6.13.0

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `toJSON()` method on the `URL` object returns the serialized URL. The
value returned is equivalent to that of `url.href` and `url.toString()`.

This method is automatically called when an `URL` object is serialized with
[`JSON.stringify()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify).

    
    
    const myURLs = [
      new URL('https://www.example.com'),
      new URL('https://test.example.org'),
    ];
    console.log(JSON.stringify(myURLs));
    // Prints ["https://www.example.com/","https://test.example.org/"] copy

##### `URL.createObjectURL(blob)`#

Added in: v16.7.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `blob` <Blob>
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Creates a `'blob:nodedata:...'` URL string that represents the given <Blob>
object and can be used to retrieve the `Blob` later.

    
    
    const {
      Blob,
      resolveObjectURL,
    } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const blob = new Blob(['hello']);
    const id = URL.createObjectURL(blob);
    
    // later...
    
    const otherBlob = resolveObjectURL(id);
    console.log(otherBlob.size); copy

The data stored by the registered <Blob> will be retained in memory until
`URL.revokeObjectURL()` is called to remove it.

`Blob` objects are registered within the current thread. If using Worker
Threads, `Blob` objects registered within one Worker will not be available to
other workers or the main thread.

##### `URL.revokeObjectURL(id)`#

Added in: v16.7.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `id` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A `'blob:nodedata:...` URL string returned by a prior call to `URL.createObjectURL()`.

Removes the stored <Blob> identified by the given ID. Attempting to revoke a
ID that isn't registered will silently fail.

##### `URL.canParse(input[, base])`#

Added in: v19.9.0, v18.17.0

  * `input` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The absolute or relative input URL to parse. If `input` is relative, then `base` is required. If `input` is absolute, the `base` is ignored. If `input` is not a string, it is [converted to a string](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-tostring) first.
  * `base` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The base URL to resolve against if the `input` is not absolute. If `base` is not a string, it is [converted to a string](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-tostring) first.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Checks if an `input` relative to the `base` can be parsed to a `URL`.

    
    
    const isValid = URL.canParse('/foo', 'https://example.org/'); // true
    
    const isNotValid = URL.canParse('/foo'); // false copy

##### `URL.parse(input[, base])`#

Added in: v22.1.0

  * `input` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The absolute or relative input URL to parse. If `input` is relative, then `base` is required. If `input` is absolute, the `base` is ignored. If `input` is not a string, it is [converted to a string](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-tostring) first.
  * `base` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The base URL to resolve against if the `input` is not absolute. If `base` is not a string, it is [converted to a string](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-tostring) first.
  * Returns: <URL> | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type)

Parses a string as a URL. If `base` is provided, it will be used as the base
URL for the purpose of resolving non-absolute `input` URLs. Returns `null` if
`input` is not a valid.

#### Class: `URLPattern`#

Added in: v23.8.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

The `URLPattern` API provides an interface to match URLs or parts of URLs
against a pattern.

    
    
    const myPattern = new URLPattern('https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/*.html');
    console.log(myPattern.exec('https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/dns.html'));
    // Prints:
    // {
    //  "hash": { "groups": {  "0": "" },  "input": "" },
    //  "hostname": { "groups": {}, "input": "nodejs.org" },
    //  "inputs": [
    //    "https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/dns.html"
    //  ],
    //  "password": { "groups": { "0": "" }, "input": "" },
    //  "pathname": { "groups": { "0": "dns" }, "input": "/docs/latest/api/dns.html" },
    //  "port": { "groups": {}, "input": "" },
    //  "protocol": { "groups": {}, "input": "https" },
    //  "search": { "groups": { "0": "" }, "input": "" },
    //  "username": { "groups": { "0": "" }, "input": "" }
    // }
    
    console.log(myPattern.test('https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/dns.html'));
    // Prints: true copy

##### `new URLPattern()`#

Instantiate a new empty `URLPattern` object.

##### `new URLPattern(string[, baseURL][, options])`#

  * `string` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A URL string
  * `baseURL` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) A base URL string
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Options

Parse the `string` as a URL, and use it to instantiate a new `URLPattern`
object.

If `baseURL` is not specified, it defaults to `undefined`.

An option can have `ignoreCase` boolean attribute which enables case-
insensitive matching if set to true.

The constructor can throw a `TypeError` to indicate parsing failure.

##### `new URLPattern(objg[, baseURL][, options])`#

  * `obj` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An input pattern
  * `baseURL` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) A base URL string
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Options

Parse the `Object` as an input pattern, and use it to instantiate a new
`URLPattern` object. The object members can be any of `protocol`, `username`,
`password`, `hostname`, `port`, `pathname`, `search`, `hash` or `baseURL`.

If `baseURL` is not specified, it defaults to `undefined`.

An option can have `ignoreCase` boolean attribute which enables case-
insensitive matching if set to true.

The constructor can throw a `TypeError` to indicate parsing failure.

##### `urlPattern.exec(input[, baseURL])`#

  * `input` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) A URL or URL parts
  * `baseURL` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) A base URL string

Input can be a string or an object providing the individual URL parts. The
object members can be any of `protocol`, `username`, `password`, `hostname`,
`port`, `pathname`, `search`, `hash` or `baseURL`.

If `baseURL` is not specified, it will default to `undefined`.

Returns an object with an `inputs` key containing the array of arguments
passed into the function and keys of the URL components which contains the
matched input and matched groups.

    
    
    const myPattern = new URLPattern('https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/*.html');
    console.log(myPattern.exec('https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/dns.html'));
    // Prints:
    // {
    //  "hash": { "groups": {  "0": "" },  "input": "" },
    //  "hostname": { "groups": {}, "input": "nodejs.org" },
    //  "inputs": [
    //    "https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/dns.html"
    //  ],
    //  "password": { "groups": { "0": "" }, "input": "" },
    //  "pathname": { "groups": { "0": "dns" }, "input": "/docs/latest/api/dns.html" },
    //  "port": { "groups": {}, "input": "" },
    //  "protocol": { "groups": {}, "input": "https" },
    //  "search": { "groups": { "0": "" }, "input": "" },
    //  "username": { "groups": { "0": "" }, "input": "" }
    // } copy

##### `urlPattern.test(input[, baseURL])`#

  * `input` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) A URL or URL parts
  * `baseURL` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) A base URL string

Input can be a string or an object providing the individual URL parts. The
object members can be any of `protocol`, `username`, `password`, `hostname`,
`port`, `pathname`, `search`, `hash` or `baseURL`.

If `baseURL` is not specified, it will default to `undefined`.

Returns a boolean indicating if the input matches the current pattern.

    
    
    const myPattern = new URLPattern('https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/*.html');
    console.log(myPattern.test('https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/dns.html'));
    // Prints: true copy

#### Class: `URLSearchParams`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | The class is now available on the global object.  
v7.5.0, v6.13.0 | Added in: v7.5.0, v6.13.0  
  
The `URLSearchParams` API provides read and write access to the query of a
`URL`. The `URLSearchParams` class can also be used standalone with one of the
four following constructors. The `URLSearchParams` class is also available on
the global object.

The WHATWG `URLSearchParams` interface and the
[`querystring`](querystring.html) module have similar purpose, but the purpose
of the [`querystring`](querystring.html) module is more general, as it allows
the customization of delimiter characters (`&` and `=`). On the other hand,
this API is designed purely for URL query strings.

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('https://example.org/?abc=123');
    console.log(myURL.searchParams.get('abc'));
    // Prints 123
    
    myURL.searchParams.append('abc', 'xyz');
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://example.org/?abc=123&abc=xyz
    
    myURL.searchParams.delete('abc');
    myURL.searchParams.set('a', 'b');
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://example.org/?a=b
    
    const newSearchParams = new URLSearchParams(myURL.searchParams);
    // The above is equivalent to
    // const newSearchParams = new URLSearchParams(myURL.search);
    
    newSearchParams.append('a', 'c');
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://example.org/?a=b
    console.log(newSearchParams.toString());
    // Prints a=b&a=c
    
    // newSearchParams.toString() is implicitly called
    myURL.search = newSearchParams;
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://example.org/?a=b&a=c
    newSearchParams.delete('a');
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://example.org/?a=b&a=c copy

##### `new URLSearchParams()`#

Instantiate a new empty `URLSearchParams` object.

##### `new URLSearchParams(string)`#

  * `string` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A query string

Parse the `string` as a query string, and use it to instantiate a new
`URLSearchParams` object. A leading `'?'`, if present, is ignored.

    
    
    let params;
    
    params = new URLSearchParams('user=abc&query=xyz');
    console.log(params.get('user'));
    // Prints 'abc'
    console.log(params.toString());
    // Prints 'user=abc&query=xyz'
    
    params = new URLSearchParams('?user=abc&query=xyz');
    console.log(params.toString());
    // Prints 'user=abc&query=xyz' copy

##### `new URLSearchParams(obj)`#

Added in: v7.10.0, v6.13.0

  * `obj` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An object representing a collection of key-value pairs

Instantiate a new `URLSearchParams` object with a query hash map. The key and
value of each property of `obj` are always coerced to strings.

Unlike [`querystring`](querystring.html) module, duplicate keys in the form of
array values are not allowed. Arrays are stringified using
[`array.toString()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/toString), which simply
joins all array elements with commas.

    
    
    const params = new URLSearchParams({
      user: 'abc',
      query: ['first', 'second'],
    });
    console.log(params.getAll('query'));
    // Prints [ 'first,second' ]
    console.log(params.toString());
    // Prints 'user=abc&query=first%2Csecond' copy

##### `new URLSearchParams(iterable)`#

Added in: v7.10.0, v6.13.0

  * `iterable` [<Iterable>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterable_protocol) An iterable object whose elements are key-value pairs

Instantiate a new `URLSearchParams` object with an iterable map in a way that
is similar to [<Map>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map)'s constructor. `iterable`
can be an `Array` or any iterable object. That means `iterable` can be another
`URLSearchParams`, in which case the constructor will simply create a clone of
the provided `URLSearchParams`. Elements of `iterable` are key-value pairs,
and can themselves be any iterable object.

Duplicate keys are allowed.

    
    
    let params;
    
    // Using an array
    params = new URLSearchParams([
      ['user', 'abc'],
      ['query', 'first'],
      ['query', 'second'],
    ]);
    console.log(params.toString());
    // Prints 'user=abc&query=first&query=second'
    
    // Using a Map object
    const map = new Map();
    map.set('user', 'abc');
    map.set('query', 'xyz');
    params = new URLSearchParams(map);
    console.log(params.toString());
    // Prints 'user=abc&query=xyz'
    
    // Using a generator function
    function* getQueryPairs() {
      yield ['user', 'abc'];
      yield ['query', 'first'];
      yield ['query', 'second'];
    }
    params = new URLSearchParams(getQueryPairs());
    console.log(params.toString());
    // Prints 'user=abc&query=first&query=second'
    
    // Each key-value pair must have exactly two elements
    new URLSearchParams([
      ['user', 'abc', 'error'],
    ]);
    // Throws TypeError [ERR_INVALID_TUPLE]:
    //        Each query pair must be an iterable [name, value] tuple copy

##### `urlSearchParams.append(name, value)`#

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `value` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Append a new name-value pair to the query string.

##### `urlSearchParams.delete(name[, value])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.2.0, v18.18.0 | Add support for optional `value` argument.  
  
  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `value` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

If `value` is provided, removes all name-value pairs where name is `name` and
value is `value`..

If `value` is not provided, removes all name-value pairs whose name is `name`.

##### `urlSearchParams.entries()`#

  * Returns: [<Iterator>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterator_protocol)

Returns an ES6 `Iterator` over each of the name-value pairs in the query. Each
item of the iterator is a JavaScript `Array`. The first item of the `Array` is
the `name`, the second item of the `Array` is the `value`.

Alias for `urlSearchParams[@@iterator]()`.

##### `urlSearchParams.forEach(fn[, thisArg])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | Passing an invalid callback to the `fn` argument now throws `ERR_INVALID_ARG_TYPE` instead of `ERR_INVALID_CALLBACK`.  
  
  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Invoked for each name-value pair in the query
  * `thisArg` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) To be used as `this` value for when `fn` is called

Iterates over each name-value pair in the query and invokes the given
function.

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('https://example.org/?a=b&c=d');
    myURL.searchParams.forEach((value, name, searchParams) => {
      console.log(name, value, myURL.searchParams === searchParams);
    });
    // Prints:
    //   a b true
    //   c d true copy

##### `urlSearchParams.get(name)`#

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) A string or `null` if there is no name-value pair with the given `name`.

Returns the value of the first name-value pair whose name is `name`. If there
are no such pairs, `null` is returned.

##### `urlSearchParams.getAll(name)`#

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the values of all name-value pairs whose name is `name`. If there are
no such pairs, an empty array is returned.

##### `urlSearchParams.has(name[, value])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.2.0, v18.18.0 | Add support for optional `value` argument.  
  
  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `value` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Checks if the `URLSearchParams` object contains key-value pair(s) based on
`name` and an optional `value` argument.

If `value` is provided, returns `true` when name-value pair with same `name`
and `value` exists.

If `value` is not provided, returns `true` if there is at least one name-value
pair whose name is `name`.

##### `urlSearchParams.keys()`#

  * Returns: [<Iterator>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterator_protocol)

Returns an ES6 `Iterator` over the names of each name-value pair.

    
    
    const params = new URLSearchParams('foo=bar&foo=baz');
    for (const name of params.keys()) {
      console.log(name);
    }
    // Prints:
    //   foo
    //   foo copy

##### `urlSearchParams.set(name, value)`#

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `value` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Sets the value in the `URLSearchParams` object associated with `name` to
`value`. If there are any pre-existing name-value pairs whose names are
`name`, set the first such pair's value to `value` and remove all others. If
not, append the name-value pair to the query string.

    
    
    const params = new URLSearchParams();
    params.append('foo', 'bar');
    params.append('foo', 'baz');
    params.append('abc', 'def');
    console.log(params.toString());
    // Prints foo=bar&foo=baz&abc=def
    
    params.set('foo', 'def');
    params.set('xyz', 'opq');
    console.log(params.toString());
    // Prints foo=def&abc=def&xyz=opq copy

##### `urlSearchParams.size`#

Added in: v19.8.0, v18.16.0

The total number of parameter entries.

##### `urlSearchParams.sort()`#

Added in: v7.7.0, v6.13.0

Sort all existing name-value pairs in-place by their names. Sorting is done
with a [stable sorting
algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sorting_algorithm#Stability), so
relative order between name-value pairs with the same name is preserved.

This method can be used, in particular, to increase cache hits.

    
    
    const params = new URLSearchParams('query[]=abc&type=search&query[]=123');
    params.sort();
    console.log(params.toString());
    // Prints query%5B%5D=abc&query%5B%5D=123&type=search copy

##### `urlSearchParams.toString()`#

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the search parameters serialized as a string, with characters percent-
encoded where necessary.

##### `urlSearchParams.values()`#

  * Returns: [<Iterator>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterator_protocol)

Returns an ES6 `Iterator` over the values of each name-value pair.

##### `urlSearchParams[Symbol.iterator]()`#

  * Returns: [<Iterator>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterator_protocol)

Returns an ES6 `Iterator` over each of the name-value pairs in the query
string. Each item of the iterator is a JavaScript `Array`. The first item of
the `Array` is the `name`, the second item of the `Array` is the `value`.

Alias for `urlSearchParams.entries()`.

    
    
    const params = new URLSearchParams('foo=bar&xyz=baz');
    for (const [name, value] of params) {
      console.log(name, value);
    }
    // Prints:
    //   foo bar
    //   xyz baz copy

#### `url.domainToASCII(domain)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0, v18.17.0 | ICU requirement is removed.  
v7.4.0, v6.13.0 | Added in: v7.4.0, v6.13.0  
  
  * `domain` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the [Punycode](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5891#section-4.4) ASCII
serialization of the `domain`. If `domain` is an invalid domain, the empty
string is returned.

It performs the inverse operation to `url.domainToUnicode()`.

    
    
    import url from 'node:url';
    
    console.log(url.domainToASCII('español.com'));
    // Prints xn--espaol-zwa.com
    console.log(url.domainToASCII('中文.com'));
    // Prints xn--fiq228c.com
    console.log(url.domainToASCII('xn--iñvalid.com'));
    // Prints an empty stringconst url = require('node:url');
    
    console.log(url.domainToASCII('español.com'));
    // Prints xn--espaol-zwa.com
    console.log(url.domainToASCII('中文.com'));
    // Prints xn--fiq228c.com
    console.log(url.domainToASCII('xn--iñvalid.com'));
    // Prints an empty stringcopy

#### `url.domainToUnicode(domain)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.0.0, v18.17.0 | ICU requirement is removed.  
v7.4.0, v6.13.0 | Added in: v7.4.0, v6.13.0  
  
  * `domain` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the Unicode serialization of the `domain`. If `domain` is an invalid
domain, the empty string is returned.

It performs the inverse operation to `url.domainToASCII()`.

    
    
    import url from 'node:url';
    
    console.log(url.domainToUnicode('xn--espaol-zwa.com'));
    // Prints español.com
    console.log(url.domainToUnicode('xn--fiq228c.com'));
    // Prints 中文.com
    console.log(url.domainToUnicode('xn--iñvalid.com'));
    // Prints an empty stringconst url = require('node:url');
    
    console.log(url.domainToUnicode('xn--espaol-zwa.com'));
    // Prints español.com
    console.log(url.domainToUnicode('xn--fiq228c.com'));
    // Prints 中文.com
    console.log(url.domainToUnicode('xn--iñvalid.com'));
    // Prints an empty stringcopy

#### `url.fileURLToPath(url[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.1.0, v20.13.0 | The `options` argument can now be used to determine how to parse the `path` argument.  
v10.12.0 | Added in: v10.12.0  
  
  * `url` <URL> | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The file URL string or URL object to convert to a path.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `windows` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) `true` if the `path` should be return as a windows filepath, `false` for posix, and `undefined` for the system default. **Default:** `undefined`.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The fully-resolved platform-specific Node.js file path.

This function ensures the correct decodings of percent-encoded characters as
well as ensuring a cross-platform valid absolute path string.

    
    
    import { fileURLToPath } from 'node:url';
    
    const __filename = fileURLToPath(import.meta.url);
    
    new URL('file:///C:/path/').pathname;      // Incorrect: /C:/path/
    fileURLToPath('file:///C:/path/');         // Correct:   C:\path\ (Windows)
    
    new URL('file://nas/foo.txt').pathname;    // Incorrect: /foo.txt
    fileURLToPath('file://nas/foo.txt');       // Correct:   \\nas\foo.txt (Windows)
    
    new URL('file:///你好.txt').pathname;      // Incorrect: /%E4%BD%A0%E5%A5%BD.txt
    fileURLToPath('file:///你好.txt');         // Correct:   /你好.txt (POSIX)
    
    new URL('file:///hello world').pathname;   // Incorrect: /hello%20world
    fileURLToPath('file:///hello world');      // Correct:   /hello world (POSIX)const { fileURLToPath } = require('node:url');
    new URL('file:///C:/path/').pathname;      // Incorrect: /C:/path/
    fileURLToPath('file:///C:/path/');         // Correct:   C:\path\ (Windows)
    
    new URL('file://nas/foo.txt').pathname;    // Incorrect: /foo.txt
    fileURLToPath('file://nas/foo.txt');       // Correct:   \\nas\foo.txt (Windows)
    
    new URL('file:///你好.txt').pathname;      // Incorrect: /%E4%BD%A0%E5%A5%BD.txt
    fileURLToPath('file:///你好.txt');         // Correct:   /你好.txt (POSIX)
    
    new URL('file:///hello world').pathname;   // Incorrect: /hello%20world
    fileURLToPath('file:///hello world');      // Correct:   /hello world (POSIX)copy

#### `url.format(URL[, options])`#

Added in: v7.6.0

  * `URL` <URL> A WHATWG URL object
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `auth` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the serialized URL string should include the username and password, `false` otherwise. **Default:** `true`.
    * `fragment` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the serialized URL string should include the fragment, `false` otherwise. **Default:** `true`.
    * `search` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if the serialized URL string should include the search query, `false` otherwise. **Default:** `true`.
    * `unicode` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if Unicode characters appearing in the host component of the URL string should be encoded directly as opposed to being Punycode encoded. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns a customizable serialization of a URL `String` representation of a
WHATWG URL object.

The URL object has both a `toString()` method and `href` property that return
string serializations of the URL. These are not, however, customizable in any
way. The `url.format(URL[, options])` method allows for basic customization of
the output.

    
    
    import url from 'node:url';
    const myURL = new URL('https://a:b@測試?abc#foo');
    
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://a:b@xn--g6w251d/?abc#foo
    
    console.log(myURL.toString());
    // Prints https://a:b@xn--g6w251d/?abc#foo
    
    console.log(url.format(myURL, { fragment: false, unicode: true, auth: false }));
    // Prints 'https://測試/?abc'const url = require('node:url');
    const myURL = new URL('https://a:b@測試?abc#foo');
    
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://a:b@xn--g6w251d/?abc#foo
    
    console.log(myURL.toString());
    // Prints https://a:b@xn--g6w251d/?abc#foo
    
    console.log(url.format(myURL, { fragment: false, unicode: true, auth: false }));
    // Prints 'https://測試/?abc'copy

#### `url.pathToFileURL(path[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.1.0, v20.13.0 | The `options` argument can now be used to determine how to return the `path` value.  
v10.12.0 | Added in: v10.12.0  
  
  * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The path to convert to a File URL.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `windows` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) `true` if the `path` should be treated as a windows filepath, `false` for posix, and `undefined` for the system default. **Default:** `undefined`.
  * Returns: <URL> The file URL object.

This function ensures that `path` is resolved absolutely, and that the URL
control characters are correctly encoded when converting into a File URL.

    
    
    import { pathToFileURL } from 'node:url';
    
    new URL('/foo#1', 'file:');           // Incorrect: file:///foo#1
    pathToFileURL('/foo#1');              // Correct:   file:///foo%231 (POSIX)
    
    new URL('/some/path%.c', 'file:');    // Incorrect: file:///some/path%.c
    pathToFileURL('/some/path%.c');       // Correct:   file:///some/path%25.c (POSIX)const { pathToFileURL } = require('node:url');
    new URL(__filename);                  // Incorrect: throws (POSIX)
    new URL(__filename);                  // Incorrect: C:\... (Windows)
    pathToFileURL(__filename);            // Correct:   file:///... (POSIX)
    pathToFileURL(__filename);            // Correct:   file:///C:/... (Windows)
    
    new URL('/foo#1', 'file:');           // Incorrect: file:///foo#1
    pathToFileURL('/foo#1');              // Correct:   file:///foo%231 (POSIX)
    
    new URL('/some/path%.c', 'file:');    // Incorrect: file:///some/path%.c
    pathToFileURL('/some/path%.c');       // Correct:   file:///some/path%25.c (POSIX)copy

#### `url.urlToHttpOptions(url)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.9.0, v18.17.0 | The returned object will also contain all the own enumerable properties of the `url` argument.  
v15.7.0, v14.18.0 | Added in: v15.7.0, v14.18.0  
  
  * `url` <URL> The WHATWG URL object to convert to an options object.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Options object 
    * `protocol` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Protocol to use.
    * `hostname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A domain name or IP address of the server to issue the request to.
    * `hash` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The fragment portion of the URL.
    * `search` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The serialized query portion of the URL.
    * `pathname` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The path portion of the URL.
    * `path` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Request path. Should include query string if any. E.G. `'/index.html?page=12'`. An exception is thrown when the request path contains illegal characters. Currently, only spaces are rejected but that may change in the future.
    * `href` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The serialized URL.
    * `port` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Port of remote server.
    * `auth` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Basic authentication i.e. `'user:password'` to compute an Authorization header.

This utility function converts a URL object into an ordinary options object as
expected by the `http.request()` and `https.request()` APIs.

    
    
    import { urlToHttpOptions } from 'node:url';
    const myURL = new URL('https://a:b@測試?abc#foo');
    
    console.log(urlToHttpOptions(myURL));
    /*
    {
      protocol: 'https:',
      hostname: 'xn--g6w251d',
      hash: '#foo',
      search: '?abc',
      pathname: '/',
      path: '/?abc',
      href: 'https://a:b@xn--g6w251d/?abc#foo',
      auth: 'a:b'
    }
    */const { urlToHttpOptions } = require('node:url');
    const myURL = new URL('https://a:b@測試?abc#foo');
    
    console.log(urlToHttpOptions(myURL));
    /*
    {
      protocol: 'https:',
      hostname: 'xn--g6w251d',
      hash: '#foo',
      search: '?abc',
      pathname: '/',
      path: '/?abc',
      href: 'https://a:b@xn--g6w251d/?abc#foo',
      auth: 'a:b'
    }
    */copy

### Legacy URL API#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.13.0, v14.17.0 | Deprecation revoked. Status changed to "Legacy".  
v11.0.0 | This API is deprecated.  
  
Stability: 3 \- Legacy: Use the WHATWG URL API instead.

#### Legacy `urlObject`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.13.0, v14.17.0 | Deprecation revoked. Status changed to "Legacy".  
v11.0.0 | The Legacy URL API is deprecated. Use the WHATWG URL API.  
  
Stability: 3 \- Legacy: Use the WHATWG URL API instead.

The legacy `urlObject` (`require('node:url').Url` or `import { Url } from
'node:url'`) is created and returned by the `url.parse()` function.

##### `urlObject.auth`#

The `auth` property is the username and password portion of the URL, also
referred to as _userinfo_. This string subset follows the `protocol` and
double slashes (if present) and precedes the `host` component, delimited by
`@`. The string is either the username, or it is the username and password
separated by `:`.

For example: `'user:pass'`.

##### `urlObject.hash`#

The `hash` property is the fragment identifier portion of the URL including
the leading `#` character.

For example: `'#hash'`.

##### `urlObject.host`#

The `host` property is the full lower-cased host portion of the URL, including
the `port` if specified.

For example: `'sub.example.com:8080'`.

##### `urlObject.hostname`#

The `hostname` property is the lower-cased host name portion of the `host`
component _without_ the `port` included.

For example: `'sub.example.com'`.

##### `urlObject.href`#

The `href` property is the full URL string that was parsed with both the
`protocol` and `host` components converted to lower-case.

For example: `'http://user:[[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-
protection):8080/p/a/t/h?query=string#hash'`.

##### `urlObject.path`#

The `path` property is a concatenation of the `pathname` and `search`
components.

For example: `'/p/a/t/h?query=string'`.

No decoding of the `path` is performed.

##### `urlObject.pathname`#

The `pathname` property consists of the entire path section of the URL. This
is everything following the `host` (including the `port`) and before the start
of the `query` or `hash` components, delimited by either the ASCII question
mark (`?`) or hash (`#`) characters.

For example: `'/p/a/t/h'`.

No decoding of the path string is performed.

##### `urlObject.port`#

The `port` property is the numeric port portion of the `host` component.

For example: `'8080'`.

##### `urlObject.protocol`#

The `protocol` property identifies the URL's lower-cased protocol scheme.

For example: `'http:'`.

##### `urlObject.query`#

The `query` property is either the query string without the leading ASCII
question mark (`?`), or an object returned by the
[`querystring`](querystring.html) module's `parse()` method. Whether the
`query` property is a string or object is determined by the `parseQueryString`
argument passed to `url.parse()`.

For example: `'query=string'` or `{'query': 'string'}`.

If returned as a string, no decoding of the query string is performed. If
returned as an object, both keys and values are decoded.

##### `urlObject.search`#

The `search` property consists of the entire "query string" portion of the
URL, including the leading ASCII question mark (`?`) character.

For example: `'?query=string'`.

No decoding of the query string is performed.

##### `urlObject.slashes`#

The `slashes` property is a `boolean` with a value of `true` if two ASCII
forward-slash characters (`/`) are required following the colon in the
`protocol`.

#### `url.format(urlObject)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.0.0 | Now throws an `ERR_INVALID_URL` exception when Punycode conversion of a hostname introduces changes that could cause the URL to be re-parsed differently.  
v15.13.0, v14.17.0 | Deprecation revoked. Status changed to "Legacy".  
v11.0.0 | The Legacy URL API is deprecated. Use the WHATWG URL API.  
v7.0.0 | URLs with a `file:` scheme will now always use the correct number of slashes regardless of `slashes` option. A falsy `slashes` option with no protocol is now also respected at all times.  
v0.1.25 | Added in: v0.1.25  
  
Stability: 3 \- Legacy: Use the WHATWG URL API instead.

  * `urlObject` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A URL object (as returned by `url.parse()` or constructed otherwise). If a string, it is converted to an object by passing it to `url.parse()`.

The `url.format()` method returns a formatted URL string derived from
`urlObject`.

    
    
    const url = require('node:url');
    url.format({
      protocol: 'https',
      hostname: 'example.com',
      pathname: '/some/path',
      query: {
        page: 1,
        format: 'json',
      },
    });
    
    // => 'https://example.com/some/path?page=1&format=json' copy

If `urlObject` is not an object or a string, `url.format()` will throw a
`TypeError`.

The formatting process operates as follows:

  * A new empty string `result` is created.
  * If `urlObject.protocol` is a string, it is appended as-is to `result`.
  * Otherwise, if `urlObject.protocol` is not `undefined` and is not a string, an `Error` is thrown.
  * For all string values of `urlObject.protocol` that _do not end_ with an ASCII colon (`:`) character, the literal string `:` will be appended to `result`.
  * If either of the following conditions is true, then the literal string `//` will be appended to `result`: 
    * `urlObject.slashes` property is true;
    * `urlObject.protocol` begins with `http`, `https`, `ftp`, `gopher`, or `file`;
  * If the value of the `urlObject.auth` property is truthy, and either `urlObject.host` or `urlObject.hostname` are not `undefined`, the value of `urlObject.auth` will be coerced into a string and appended to `result` followed by the literal string `@`.
  * If the `urlObject.host` property is `undefined` then: 
    * If the `urlObject.hostname` is a string, it is appended to `result`.
    * Otherwise, if `urlObject.hostname` is not `undefined` and is not a string, an `Error` is thrown.
    * If the `urlObject.port` property value is truthy, and `urlObject.hostname` is not `undefined`: 
      * The literal string `:` is appended to `result`, and
      * The value of `urlObject.port` is coerced to a string and appended to `result`.
  * Otherwise, if the `urlObject.host` property value is truthy, the value of `urlObject.host` is coerced to a string and appended to `result`.
  * If the `urlObject.pathname` property is a string that is not an empty string: 
    * If the `urlObject.pathname` _does not start_ with an ASCII forward slash (`/`), then the literal string `'/'` is appended to `result`.
    * The value of `urlObject.pathname` is appended to `result`.
  * Otherwise, if `urlObject.pathname` is not `undefined` and is not a string, an `Error` is thrown.
  * If the `urlObject.search` property is `undefined` and if the `urlObject.query` property is an `Object`, the literal string `?` is appended to `result` followed by the output of calling the [`querystring`](querystring.html) module's `stringify()` method passing the value of `urlObject.query`.
  * Otherwise, if `urlObject.search` is a string: 
    * If the value of `urlObject.search` _does not start_ with the ASCII question mark (`?`) character, the literal string `?` is appended to `result`.
    * The value of `urlObject.search` is appended to `result`.
  * Otherwise, if `urlObject.search` is not `undefined` and is not a string, an `Error` is thrown.
  * If the `urlObject.hash` property is a string: 
    * If the value of `urlObject.hash` _does not start_ with the ASCII hash (`#`) character, the literal string `#` is appended to `result`.
    * The value of `urlObject.hash` is appended to `result`.
  * Otherwise, if the `urlObject.hash` property is not `undefined` and is not a string, an `Error` is thrown.
  * `result` is returned.

#### `url.parse(urlString[, parseQueryString[, slashesDenoteHost]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.0.0, v18.13.0 | Documentation-only deprecation.  
v15.13.0, v14.17.0 | Deprecation revoked. Status changed to "Legacy".  
v11.14.0 | The `pathname` property on the returned URL object is now `/` when there is no path and the protocol scheme is `ws:` or `wss:`.  
v11.0.0 | The Legacy URL API is deprecated. Use the WHATWG URL API.  
v9.0.0 | The `search` property on the returned URL object is now `null` when no query string is present.  
v0.1.25 | Added in: v0.1.25  
  
Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use the WHATWG URL API instead.

  * `urlString` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The URL string to parse.
  * `parseQueryString` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, the `query` property will always be set to an object returned by the [`querystring`](querystring.html) module's `parse()` method. If `false`, the `query` property on the returned URL object will be an unparsed, undecoded string. **Default:** `false`.
  * `slashesDenoteHost` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, the first token after the literal string `//` and preceding the next `/` will be interpreted as the `host`. For instance, given `//foo/bar`, the result would be `{host: 'foo', pathname: '/bar'}` rather than `{pathname: '//foo/bar'}`. **Default:** `false`.

The `url.parse()` method takes a URL string, parses it, and returns a URL
object.

A `TypeError` is thrown if `urlString` is not a string.

A `URIError` is thrown if the `auth` property is present but cannot be
decoded.

`url.parse()` uses a lenient, non-standard algorithm for parsing URL strings.
It is prone to security issues such as [host name
spoofing](https://hackerone.com/reports/678487) and incorrect handling of
usernames and passwords. Do not use with untrusted input. CVEs are not issued
for `url.parse()` vulnerabilities. Use the WHATWG URL API instead.

#### `url.resolve(from, to)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.13.0, v14.17.0 | Deprecation revoked. Status changed to "Legacy".  
v11.0.0 | The Legacy URL API is deprecated. Use the WHATWG URL API.  
v6.6.0 | The `auth` fields are now kept intact when `from` and `to` refer to the same host.  
v6.0.0 | The `auth` fields is cleared now the `to` parameter contains a hostname.  
v6.5.0, v4.6.2 | The `port` field is copied correctly now.  
v0.1.25 | Added in: v0.1.25  
  
Stability: 3 \- Legacy: Use the WHATWG URL API instead.

  * `from` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The base URL to use if `to` is a relative URL.
  * `to` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The target URL to resolve.

The `url.resolve()` method resolves a target URL relative to a base URL in a
manner similar to that of a web browser resolving an anchor tag.

    
    
    const url = require('node:url');
    url.resolve('/one/two/three', 'four');         // '/one/two/four'
    url.resolve('http://example.com/', '/one');    // 'http://example.com/one'
    url.resolve('http://example.com/one', '/two'); // 'http://example.com/two' copy

To achieve the same result using the WHATWG URL API:

    
    
    function resolve(from, to) {
      const resolvedUrl = new URL(to, new URL(from, 'resolve://'));
      if (resolvedUrl.protocol === 'resolve:') {
        // `from` is a relative URL.
        const { pathname, search, hash } = resolvedUrl;
        return pathname + search + hash;
      }
      return resolvedUrl.toString();
    }
    
    resolve('/one/two/three', 'four');         // '/one/two/four'
    resolve('http://example.com/', '/one');    // 'http://example.com/one'
    resolve('http://example.com/one', '/two'); // 'http://example.com/two' copy

### Percent-encoding in URLs#

URLs are permitted to only contain a certain range of characters. Any
character falling outside of that range must be encoded. How such characters
are encoded, and which characters to encode depends entirely on where the
character is located within the structure of the URL.

#### Legacy API#

Within the Legacy API, spaces (`' '`) and the following characters will be
automatically escaped in the properties of URL objects:

    
    
    < > " ` \r \n \t { } | \ ^ ' copy

For example, the ASCII space character (`' '`) is encoded as `%20`. The ASCII
forward slash (`/`) character is encoded as `%3C`.

#### WHATWG API#

The [WHATWG URL Standard](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/) uses a more selective
and fine grained approach to selecting encoded characters than that used by
the Legacy API.

The WHATWG algorithm defines four "percent-encode sets" that describe ranges
of characters that must be percent-encoded:

  * The _C0 control percent-encode set_ includes code points in range U+0000 to U+001F (inclusive) and all code points greater than U+007E (~).

  * The _fragment percent-encode set_ includes the _C0 control percent-encode set_ and code points U+0020 SPACE, U+0022 ("), U+003C (<), U+003E (>), and U+0060 (`).

  * The _path percent-encode set_ includes the _C0 control percent-encode set_ and code points U+0020 SPACE, U+0022 ("), U+0023 (#), U+003C (<), U+003E (>), U+003F (?), U+0060 (`), U+007B ({), and U+007D (}).

  * The _userinfo encode set_ includes the _path percent-encode set_ and code points U+002F (/), U+003A (:), U+003B (;), U+003D (=), U+0040 (@), U+005B ([) to U+005E(^), and U+007C (|).

The _userinfo percent-encode set_ is used exclusively for username and
passwords encoded within the URL. The _path percent-encode set_ is used for
the path of most URLs. The _fragment percent-encode set_ is used for URL
fragments. The _C0 control percent-encode set_ is used for host and path under
certain specific conditions, in addition to all other cases.

When non-ASCII characters appear within a host name, the host name is encoded
using the [Punycode](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5891#section-4.4)
algorithm. Note, however, that a host name _may_ contain _both_ Punycode
encoded and percent-encoded characters:

    
    
    const myURL = new URL('https://%CF%80.example.com/foo');
    console.log(myURL.href);
    // Prints https://xn--1xa.example.com/foo
    console.log(myURL.origin);
    // Prints https://xn--1xa.example.com copy

## Util#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/util.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/util.js)

The `node:util` module supports the needs of Node.js internal APIs. Many of
the utilities are useful for application and module developers as well. To
access it:

    
    
    import util from 'node:util';const util = require('node:util');copy

### `util.callbackify(original)`#

Added in: v8.2.0

  * `original` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) An `async` function
  * Returns: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) a callback style function

Takes an `async` function (or a function that returns a `Promise`) and returns
a function following the error-first callback style, i.e. taking an `(err,
value) => ...` callback as the last argument. In the callback, the first
argument will be the rejection reason (or `null` if the `Promise` resolved),
and the second argument will be the resolved value.

    
    
    import { callbackify } from 'node:util';
    
    async function fn() {
      return 'hello world';
    }
    const callbackFunction = callbackify(fn);
    
    callbackFunction((err, ret) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(ret);
    });const { callbackify } = require('node:util');
    
    async function fn() {
      return 'hello world';
    }
    const callbackFunction = callbackify(fn);
    
    callbackFunction((err, ret) => {
      if (err) throw err;
      console.log(ret);
    });copy

Will print:

    
    
    hello world copy

The callback is executed asynchronously, and will have a limited stack trace.
If the callback throws, the process will emit an `'uncaughtException'` event,
and if not handled will exit.

Since `null` has a special meaning as the first argument to a callback, if a
wrapped function rejects a `Promise` with a falsy value as a reason, the value
is wrapped in an `Error` with the original value stored in a field named
`reason`.

    
    
    function fn() {
      return Promise.reject(null);
    }
    const callbackFunction = util.callbackify(fn);
    
    callbackFunction((err, ret) => {
      // When the Promise was rejected with `null` it is wrapped with an Error and
      // the original value is stored in `reason`.
      err && Object.hasOwn(err, 'reason') && err.reason === null;  // true
    }); copy

### `util.debuglog(section[, callback])`#

Added in: v0.11.3

  * `section` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A string identifying the portion of the application for which the `debuglog` function is being created.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A callback invoked the first time the logging function is called with a function argument that is a more optimized logging function.
  * Returns: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The logging function

The `util.debuglog()` method is used to create a function that conditionally
writes debug messages to `stderr` based on the existence of the `NODE_DEBUG`
environment variable. If the `section` name appears within the value of that
environment variable, then the returned function operates similar to
`console.error()`. If not, then the returned function is a no-op.

    
    
    import { debuglog } from 'node:util';
    const log = debuglog('foo');
    
    log('hello from foo [%d]', 123);const { debuglog } = require('node:util');
    const log = debuglog('foo');
    
    log('hello from foo [%d]', 123);copy

If this program is run with `NODE_DEBUG=foo` in the environment, then it will
output something like:

    
    
    FOO 3245: hello from foo [123] copy

where `3245` is the process id. If it is not run with that environment
variable set, then it will not print anything.

The `section` supports wildcard also:

    
    
    import { debuglog } from 'node:util';
    const log = debuglog('foo');
    
    log('hi there, it\'s foo-bar [%d]', 2333);const { debuglog } = require('node:util');
    const log = debuglog('foo');
    
    log('hi there, it\'s foo-bar [%d]', 2333);copy

if it is run with `NODE_DEBUG=foo*` in the environment, then it will output
something like:

    
    
    FOO-BAR 3257: hi there, it's foo-bar [2333] copy

Multiple comma-separated `section` names may be specified in the `NODE_DEBUG`
environment variable: `NODE_DEBUG=fs,net,tls`.

The optional `callback` argument can be used to replace the logging function
with a different function that doesn't have any initialization or unnecessary
wrapping.

    
    
    import { debuglog } from 'node:util';
    let log = debuglog('internals', (debug) => {
      // Replace with a logging function that optimizes out
      // testing if the section is enabled
      log = debug;
    });const { debuglog } = require('node:util');
    let log = debuglog('internals', (debug) => {
      // Replace with a logging function that optimizes out
      // testing if the section is enabled
      log = debug;
    });copy

#### `debuglog().enabled`#

Added in: v14.9.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `util.debuglog().enabled` getter is used to create a test that can be used
in conditionals based on the existence of the `NODE_DEBUG` environment
variable. If the `section` name appears within the value of that environment
variable, then the returned value will be `true`. If not, then the returned
value will be `false`.

    
    
    import { debuglog } from 'node:util';
    const enabled = debuglog('foo').enabled;
    if (enabled) {
      console.log('hello from foo [%d]', 123);
    }const { debuglog } = require('node:util');
    const enabled = debuglog('foo').enabled;
    if (enabled) {
      console.log('hello from foo [%d]', 123);
    }copy

If this program is run with `NODE_DEBUG=foo` in the environment, then it will
output something like:

    
    
    hello from foo [123] copy

### `util.debug(section)`#

Added in: v14.9.0

Alias for `util.debuglog`. Usage allows for readability of that doesn't imply
logging when only using `util.debuglog().enabled`.

### `util.deprecate(fn, msg[, code])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.0.0 | Deprecation warnings are only emitted once for each code.  
v0.8.0 | Added in: v0.8.0  
  
  * `fn` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The function that is being deprecated.
  * `msg` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A warning message to display when the deprecated function is invoked.
  * `code` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A deprecation code. See the list of deprecated APIs for a list of codes.
  * Returns: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The deprecated function wrapped to emit a warning.

The `util.deprecate()` method wraps `fn` (which may be a function or class) in
such a way that it is marked as deprecated.

    
    
    import { deprecate } from 'node:util';
    
    export const obsoleteFunction = deprecate(() => {
      // Do something here.
    }, 'obsoleteFunction() is deprecated. Use newShinyFunction() instead.');const { deprecate } = require('node:util');
    
    exports.obsoleteFunction = deprecate(() => {
      // Do something here.
    }, 'obsoleteFunction() is deprecated. Use newShinyFunction() instead.');copy

When called, `util.deprecate()` will return a function that will emit a
`DeprecationWarning` using the `'warning'` event. The warning will be emitted
and printed to `stderr` the first time the returned function is called. After
the warning is emitted, the wrapped function is called without emitting a
warning.

If the same optional `code` is supplied in multiple calls to
`util.deprecate()`, the warning will be emitted only once for that `code`.

    
    
    import { deprecate } from 'node:util';
    
    const fn1 = deprecate(
      () => 'a value',
      'deprecation message',
      'DEP0001',
    );
    const fn2 = deprecate(
      () => 'a  different value',
      'other dep message',
      'DEP0001',
    );
    fn1(); // Emits a deprecation warning with code DEP0001
    fn2(); // Does not emit a deprecation warning because it has the same codeconst { deprecate } = require('node:util');
    
    const fn1 = deprecate(
      function() {
        return 'a value';
      },
      'deprecation message',
      'DEP0001',
    );
    const fn2 = deprecate(
      function() {
        return 'a  different value';
      },
      'other dep message',
      'DEP0001',
    );
    fn1(); // Emits a deprecation warning with code DEP0001
    fn2(); // Does not emit a deprecation warning because it has the same codecopy

If either the `--no-deprecation` or `--no-warnings` command-line flags are
used, or if the `process.noDeprecation` property is set to `true` _prior_ to
the first deprecation warning, the `util.deprecate()` method does nothing.

If the `--trace-deprecation` or `--trace-warnings` command-line flags are set,
or the `process.traceDeprecation` property is set to `true`, a warning and a
stack trace are printed to `stderr` the first time the deprecated function is
called.

If the `--throw-deprecation` command-line flag is set, or the
`process.throwDeprecation` property is set to `true`, then an exception will
be thrown when the deprecated function is called.

The `--throw-deprecation` command-line flag and `process.throwDeprecation`
property take precedence over `--trace-deprecation` and
`process.traceDeprecation`.

### `util.format(format[, ...args])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.11.0 | The `%c` specifier is ignored now.  
v12.0.0 | The `format` argument is now only taken as such if it actually contains format specifiers.  
v12.0.0 | If the `format` argument is not a format string, the output string's formatting is no longer dependent on the type of the first argument. This change removes previously present quotes from strings that were being output when the first argument was not a string.  
v11.4.0 | The `%d`, `%f`, and `%i` specifiers now support Symbols properly.  
v11.4.0 | The `%o` specifier's `depth` has default depth of 4 again.  
v11.0.0 | The `%o` specifier's `depth` option will now fall back to the default depth.  
v10.12.0 | The `%d` and `%i` specifiers now support BigInt.  
v8.4.0 | The `%o` and `%O` specifiers are supported now.  
v0.5.3 | Added in: v0.5.3  
  
  * `format` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A `printf`-like format string.

The `util.format()` method returns a formatted string using the first argument
as a `printf`-like format string which can contain zero or more format
specifiers. Each specifier is replaced with the converted value from the
corresponding argument. Supported specifiers are:

  * `%s`: `String` will be used to convert all values except `BigInt`, `Object` and `-0`. `BigInt` values will be represented with an `n` and Objects that have no user defined `toString` function are inspected using `util.inspect()` with options `{ depth: 0, colors: false, compact: 3 }`.
  * `%d`: `Number` will be used to convert all values except `BigInt` and `Symbol`.
  * `%i`: `parseInt(value, 10)` is used for all values except `BigInt` and `Symbol`.
  * `%f`: `parseFloat(value)` is used for all values expect `Symbol`.
  * `%j`: JSON. Replaced with the string `'[Circular]'` if the argument contains circular references.
  * `%o`: `Object`. A string representation of an object with generic JavaScript object formatting. Similar to `util.inspect()` with options `{ showHidden: true, showProxy: true }`. This will show the full object including non-enumerable properties and proxies.
  * `%O`: `Object`. A string representation of an object with generic JavaScript object formatting. Similar to `util.inspect()` without options. This will show the full object not including non-enumerable properties and proxies.
  * `%c`: `CSS`. This specifier is ignored and will skip any CSS passed in.
  * `%%`: single percent sign (`'%'`). This does not consume an argument.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The formatted string

If a specifier does not have a corresponding argument, it is not replaced:

    
    
    util.format('%s:%s', 'foo');
    // Returns: 'foo:%s' copy

Values that are not part of the format string are formatted using
`util.inspect()` if their type is not `string`.

If there are more arguments passed to the `util.format()` method than the
number of specifiers, the extra arguments are concatenated to the returned
string, separated by spaces:

    
    
    util.format('%s:%s', 'foo', 'bar', 'baz');
    // Returns: 'foo:bar baz' copy

If the first argument does not contain a valid format specifier,
`util.format()` returns a string that is the concatenation of all arguments
separated by spaces:

    
    
    util.format(1, 2, 3);
    // Returns: '1 2 3' copy

If only one argument is passed to `util.format()`, it is returned as it is
without any formatting:

    
    
    util.format('%% %s');
    // Returns: '%% %s' copy

`util.format()` is a synchronous method that is intended as a debugging tool.
Some input values can have a significant performance overhead that can block
the event loop. Use this function with care and never in a hot code path.

### `util.formatWithOptions(inspectOptions, format[, ...args])`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `inspectOptions` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * `format` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

This function is identical to `util.format()`, except in that it takes an
`inspectOptions` argument which specifies options that are passed along to
`util.inspect()`.

    
    
    util.formatWithOptions({ colors: true }, 'See object %O', { foo: 42 });
    // Returns 'See object { foo: 42 }', where `42` is colored as a number
    // when printed to a terminal. copy

### `util.getCallSites([frameCount][, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.7.0 | Property `column` is deprecated in favor of `columnNumber`.  
v23.7.0 | Property `CallSite.scriptId` is exposed.  
v23.3.0 | The API is renamed from `util.getCallSite` to `util.getCallSites()`.  
v22.9.0 | Added in: v22.9.0  
  
Stability: 1.1 - Active development

  * `frameCount` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Optional number of frames to capture as call site objects. **Default:** `10`. Allowable range is between 1 and 200.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Optional 
    * `sourceMap` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Reconstruct the original location in the stacktrace from the source-map. Enabled by default with the flag `--enable-source-maps`.
  * Returns: [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An array of call site objects 
    * `functionName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Returns the name of the function associated with this call site.
    * `scriptName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Returns the name of the resource that contains the script for the function for this call site.
    * `scriptId` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Returns the unique id of the script, as in Chrome DevTools protocol [`Runtime.ScriptId`](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol/1-3/Runtime/#type-ScriptId).
    * `lineNumber` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Returns the JavaScript script line number (1-based).
    * `columnNumber` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Returns the JavaScript script column number (1-based).

Returns an array of call site objects containing the stack of the caller
function.

    
    
    import { getCallSites } from 'node:util';
    
    function exampleFunction() {
      const callSites = getCallSites();
    
      console.log('Call Sites:');
      callSites.forEach((callSite, index) => {
        console.log(`CallSite ${index + 1}:`);
        console.log(`Function Name: ${callSite.functionName}`);
        console.log(`Script Name: ${callSite.scriptName}`);
        console.log(`Line Number: ${callSite.lineNumber}`);
        console.log(`Column Number: ${callSite.column}`);
      });
      // CallSite 1:
      // Function Name: exampleFunction
      // Script Name: /home/example.js
      // Line Number: 5
      // Column Number: 26
    
      // CallSite 2:
      // Function Name: anotherFunction
      // Script Name: /home/example.js
      // Line Number: 22
      // Column Number: 3
    
      // ...
    }
    
    // A function to simulate another stack layer
    function anotherFunction() {
      exampleFunction();
    }
    
    anotherFunction();const { getCallSites } = require('node:util');
    
    function exampleFunction() {
      const callSites = getCallSites();
    
      console.log('Call Sites:');
      callSites.forEach((callSite, index) => {
        console.log(`CallSite ${index + 1}:`);
        console.log(`Function Name: ${callSite.functionName}`);
        console.log(`Script Name: ${callSite.scriptName}`);
        console.log(`Line Number: ${callSite.lineNumber}`);
        console.log(`Column Number: ${callSite.column}`);
      });
      // CallSite 1:
      // Function Name: exampleFunction
      // Script Name: /home/example.js
      // Line Number: 5
      // Column Number: 26
    
      // CallSite 2:
      // Function Name: anotherFunction
      // Script Name: /home/example.js
      // Line Number: 22
      // Column Number: 3
    
      // ...
    }
    
    // A function to simulate another stack layer
    function anotherFunction() {
      exampleFunction();
    }
    
    anotherFunction();copy

It is possible to reconstruct the original locations by setting the option
`sourceMap` to `true`. If the source map is not available, the original
location will be the same as the current location. When the `--enable-source-
maps` flag is enabled, for example when using `--experimental-transform-
types`, `sourceMap` will be true by default.

    
    
    import { getCallSites } from 'node:util';
    
    interface Foo {
      foo: string;
    }
    
    const callSites = getCallSites({ sourceMap: true });
    
    // With sourceMap:
    // Function Name: ''
    // Script Name: example.js
    // Line Number: 7
    // Column Number: 26
    
    // Without sourceMap:
    // Function Name: ''
    // Script Name: example.js
    // Line Number: 2
    // Column Number: 26 copy
    
    
    const { getCallSites } = require('node:util');
    
    const callSites = getCallSites({ sourceMap: true });
    
    // With sourceMap:
    // Function Name: ''
    // Script Name: example.js
    // Line Number: 7
    // Column Number: 26
    
    // Without sourceMap:
    // Function Name: ''
    // Script Name: example.js
    // Line Number: 2
    // Column Number: 26 copy

### `util.getSystemErrorName(err)`#

Added in: v9.7.0

  * `err` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the string name for a numeric error code that comes from a Node.js
API. The mapping between error codes and error names is platform-dependent.
See Common System Errors for the names of common errors.

    
    
    fs.access('file/that/does/not/exist', (err) => {
      const name = util.getSystemErrorName(err.errno);
      console.error(name);  // ENOENT
    }); copy

### `util.getSystemErrorMap()`#

Added in: v16.0.0, v14.17.0

  * Returns: [<Map>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map)

Returns a Map of all system error codes available from the Node.js API. The
mapping between error codes and error names is platform-dependent. See Common
System Errors for the names of common errors.

    
    
    fs.access('file/that/does/not/exist', (err) => {
      const errorMap = util.getSystemErrorMap();
      const name = errorMap.get(err.errno);
      console.error(name);  // ENOENT
    }); copy

### `util.getSystemErrorMessage(err)`#

Added in: v23.1.0

  * `err` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the string message for a numeric error code that comes from a Node.js
API. The mapping between error codes and string messages is platform-
dependent.

    
    
    fs.access('file/that/does/not/exist', (err) => {
      const message = util.getSystemErrorMessage(err.errno);
      console.error(message);  // No such file or directory
    }); copy

### `util.inherits(constructor, superConstructor)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v5.0.0 | The `constructor` parameter can refer to an ES6 class now.  
v0.3.0 | Added in: v0.3.0  
  
Stability: 3 \- Legacy: Use ES2015 class syntax and `extends` keyword instead.

  * `constructor` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * `superConstructor` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Usage of `util.inherits()` is discouraged. Please use the ES6 `class` and
`extends` keywords to get language level inheritance support. Also note that
the two styles are [semantically
incompatible](https://github.com/nodejs/node/issues/4179).

Inherit the prototype methods from one
[constructor](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/constructor) into
another. The prototype of `constructor` will be set to a new object created
from `superConstructor`.

This mainly adds some input validation on top of
`Object.setPrototypeOf(constructor.prototype, superConstructor.prototype)`. As
an additional convenience, `superConstructor` will be accessible through the
`constructor.super_` property.

    
    
    const util = require('node:util');
    const EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    
    function MyStream() {
      EventEmitter.call(this);
    }
    
    util.inherits(MyStream, EventEmitter);
    
    MyStream.prototype.write = function(data) {
      this.emit('data', data);
    };
    
    const stream = new MyStream();
    
    console.log(stream instanceof EventEmitter); // true
    console.log(MyStream.super_ === EventEmitter); // true
    
    stream.on('data', (data) => {
      console.log(`Received data: "${data}"`);
    });
    stream.write('It works!'); // Received data: "It works!" copy

ES6 example using `class` and `extends`:

    
    
    import EventEmitter from 'node:events';
    
    class MyStream extends EventEmitter {
      write(data) {
        this.emit('data', data);
      }
    }
    
    const stream = new MyStream();
    
    stream.on('data', (data) => {
      console.log(`Received data: "${data}"`);
    });
    stream.write('With ES6');const EventEmitter = require('node:events');
    
    class MyStream extends EventEmitter {
      write(data) {
        this.emit('data', data);
      }
    }
    
    const stream = new MyStream();
    
    stream.on('data', (data) => {
      console.log(`Received data: "${data}"`);
    });
    stream.write('With ES6');copy

### `util.inspect(object[, options])`#

### `util.inspect(object[, showHidden[, depth[, colors]]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v16.18.0 | add support for `maxArrayLength` when inspecting `Set` and `Map`.  
v17.3.0, v16.14.0 | The `numericSeparator` option is supported now.  
v13.0.0 | Circular references now include a marker to the reference.  
v14.6.0, v12.19.0 | If `object` is from a different `vm.Context` now, a custom inspection function on it will not receive context-specific arguments anymore.  
v13.13.0, v12.17.0 | The `maxStringLength` option is supported now.  
v13.5.0, v12.16.0 | User defined prototype properties are inspected in case `showHidden` is `true`.  
v12.0.0 | The `compact` options default is changed to `3` and the `breakLength` options default is changed to `80`.  
v12.0.0 | Internal properties no longer appear in the context argument of a custom inspection function.  
v11.11.0 | The `compact` option accepts numbers for a new output mode.  
v11.7.0 | ArrayBuffers now also show their binary contents.  
v11.5.0 | The `getters` option is supported now.  
v11.4.0 | The `depth` default changed back to `2`.  
v11.0.0 | The `depth` default changed to `20`.  
v11.0.0 | The inspection output is now limited to about 128 MiB. Data above that size will not be fully inspected.  
v10.12.0 | The `sorted` option is supported now.  
v10.6.0 | Inspecting linked lists and similar objects is now possible up to the maximum call stack size.  
v10.0.0 | The `WeakMap` and `WeakSet` entries can now be inspected as well.  
v9.9.0 | The `compact` option is supported now.  
v6.6.0 | Custom inspection functions can now return `this`.  
v6.3.0 | The `breakLength` option is supported now.  
v6.1.0 | The `maxArrayLength` option is supported now; in particular, long arrays are truncated by default.  
v6.1.0 | The `showProxy` option is supported now.  
v0.3.0 | Added in: v0.3.0  
  
  * `object` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Any JavaScript primitive or `Object`.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `showHidden` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, `object`'s non-enumerable symbols and properties are included in the formatted result. [<WeakMap>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakMap) and [<WeakSet>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakSet) entries are also included as well as user defined prototype properties (excluding method properties). **Default:** `false`.
    * `depth` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the number of times to recurse while formatting `object`. This is useful for inspecting large objects. To recurse up to the maximum call stack size pass `Infinity` or `null`. **Default:** `2`.
    * `colors` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, the output is styled with ANSI color codes. Colors are customizable. See Customizing `util.inspect` colors. **Default:** `false`.
    * `customInspect` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `false`, `[util.inspect.custom](depth, opts, inspect)` functions are not invoked. **Default:** `true`.
    * `showProxy` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, `Proxy` inspection includes the [`target` and `handler`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Proxy#Terminology) objects. **Default:** `false`.
    * `maxArrayLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the maximum number of `Array`, [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray), [<Map>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map), [<WeakMap>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakMap), and [<WeakSet>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakSet) elements to include when formatting. Set to `null` or `Infinity` to show all elements. Set to `0` or negative to show no elements. **Default:** `100`.
    * `maxStringLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the maximum number of characters to include when formatting. Set to `null` or `Infinity` to show all elements. Set to `0` or negative to show no characters. **Default:** `10000`.
    * `breakLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The length at which input values are split across multiple lines. Set to `Infinity` to format the input as a single line (in combination with `compact` set to `true` or any number >= `1`). **Default:** `80`.
    * `compact` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Setting this to `false` causes each object key to be displayed on a new line. It will break on new lines in text that is longer than `breakLength`. If set to a number, the most `n` inner elements are united on a single line as long as all properties fit into `breakLength`. Short array elements are also grouped together. For more information, see the example below. **Default:** `3`.
    * `sorted` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) If set to `true` or a function, all properties of an object, and `Set` and `Map` entries are sorted in the resulting string. If set to `true` the [default sort](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/sort) is used. If set to a function, it is used as a [compare function](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/sort#Parameters).
    * `getters` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If set to `true`, getters are inspected. If set to `'get'`, only getters without a corresponding setter are inspected. If set to `'set'`, only getters with a corresponding setter are inspected. This might cause side effects depending on the getter function. **Default:** `false`.
    * `numericSeparator` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to `true`, an underscore is used to separate every three digits in all bigints and numbers. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The representation of `object`.

The `util.inspect()` method returns a string representation of `object` that
is intended for debugging. The output of `util.inspect` may change at any time
and should not be depended upon programmatically. Additional `options` may be
passed that alter the result. `util.inspect()` will use the constructor's name
and/or `@@toStringTag` to make an identifiable tag for an inspected value.

    
    
    class Foo {
      get [Symbol.toStringTag]() {
        return 'bar';
      }
    }
    
    class Bar {}
    
    const baz = Object.create(null, { [Symbol.toStringTag]: { value: 'foo' } });
    
    util.inspect(new Foo()); // 'Foo [bar] {}'
    util.inspect(new Bar()); // 'Bar {}'
    util.inspect(baz);       // '[foo] {}' copy

Circular references point to their anchor by using a reference index:

    
    
    import { inspect } from 'node:util';
    
    const obj = {};
    obj.a = [obj];
    obj.b = {};
    obj.b.inner = obj.b;
    obj.b.obj = obj;
    
    console.log(inspect(obj));
    // <ref *1> {
    //   a: [ [Circular *1] ],
    //   b: <ref *2> { inner: [Circular *2], obj: [Circular *1] }
    // }const { inspect } = require('node:util');
    
    const obj = {};
    obj.a = [obj];
    obj.b = {};
    obj.b.inner = obj.b;
    obj.b.obj = obj;
    
    console.log(inspect(obj));
    // <ref *1> {
    //   a: [ [Circular *1] ],
    //   b: <ref *2> { inner: [Circular *2], obj: [Circular *1] }
    // }copy

The following example inspects all properties of the `util` object:

    
    
    import util from 'node:util';
    
    console.log(util.inspect(util, { showHidden: true, depth: null }));const util = require('node:util');
    
    console.log(util.inspect(util, { showHidden: true, depth: null }));copy

The following example highlights the effect of the `compact` option:

    
    
    import { inspect } from 'node:util';
    
    const o = {
      a: [1, 2, [[
        'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet,\nconsectetur adipiscing elit, sed do ' +
          'eiusmod \ntempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua.',
        'test',
        'foo']], 4],
      b: new Map([['za', 1], ['zb', 'test']]),
    };
    console.log(inspect(o, { compact: true, depth: 5, breakLength: 80 }));
    
    // { a:
    //   [ 1,
    //     2,
    //     [ [ 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet,\nconsectetur [...]', // A long line
    //           'test',
    //           'foo' ] ],
    //     4 ],
    //   b: Map(2) { 'za' => 1, 'zb' => 'test' } }
    
    // Setting `compact` to false or an integer creates more reader friendly output.
    console.log(inspect(o, { compact: false, depth: 5, breakLength: 80 }));
    
    // {
    //   a: [
    //     1,
    //     2,
    //     [
    //       [
    //         'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet,\n' +
    //           'consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod \n' +
    //           'tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua.',
    //         'test',
    //         'foo'
    //       ]
    //     ],
    //     4
    //   ],
    //   b: Map(2) {
    //     'za' => 1,
    //     'zb' => 'test'
    //   }
    // }
    
    // Setting `breakLength` to e.g. 150 will print the "Lorem ipsum" text in a
    // single line.const { inspect } = require('node:util');
    
    const o = {
      a: [1, 2, [[
        'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet,\nconsectetur adipiscing elit, sed do ' +
          'eiusmod \ntempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua.',
        'test',
        'foo']], 4],
      b: new Map([['za', 1], ['zb', 'test']]),
    };
    console.log(inspect(o, { compact: true, depth: 5, breakLength: 80 }));
    
    // { a:
    //   [ 1,
    //     2,
    //     [ [ 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet,\nconsectetur [...]', // A long line
    //           'test',
    //           'foo' ] ],
    //     4 ],
    //   b: Map(2) { 'za' => 1, 'zb' => 'test' } }
    
    // Setting `compact` to false or an integer creates more reader friendly output.
    console.log(inspect(o, { compact: false, depth: 5, breakLength: 80 }));
    
    // {
    //   a: [
    //     1,
    //     2,
    //     [
    //       [
    //         'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet,\n' +
    //           'consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod \n' +
    //           'tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua.',
    //         'test',
    //         'foo'
    //       ]
    //     ],
    //     4
    //   ],
    //   b: Map(2) {
    //     'za' => 1,
    //     'zb' => 'test'
    //   }
    // }
    
    // Setting `breakLength` to e.g. 150 will print the "Lorem ipsum" text in a
    // single line.copy

The `showHidden` option allows [<WeakMap>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakMap) and
[<WeakSet>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakSet) entries to be
inspected. If there are more entries than `maxArrayLength`, there is no
guarantee which entries are displayed. That means retrieving the same
[<WeakSet>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakSet) entries twice may
result in different output. Furthermore, entries with no remaining strong
references may be garbage collected at any time.

    
    
    import { inspect } from 'node:util';
    
    const obj = { a: 1 };
    const obj2 = { b: 2 };
    const weakSet = new WeakSet([obj, obj2]);
    
    console.log(inspect(weakSet, { showHidden: true }));
    // WeakSet { { a: 1 }, { b: 2 } }const { inspect } = require('node:util');
    
    const obj = { a: 1 };
    const obj2 = { b: 2 };
    const weakSet = new WeakSet([obj, obj2]);
    
    console.log(inspect(weakSet, { showHidden: true }));
    // WeakSet { { a: 1 }, { b: 2 } }copy

The `sorted` option ensures that an object's property insertion order does not
impact the result of `util.inspect()`.

    
    
    import { inspect } from 'node:util';
    import assert from 'node:assert';
    
    const o1 = {
      b: [2, 3, 1],
      a: '`a` comes before `b`',
      c: new Set([2, 3, 1]),
    };
    console.log(inspect(o1, { sorted: true }));
    // { a: '`a` comes before `b`', b: [ 2, 3, 1 ], c: Set(3) { 1, 2, 3 } }
    console.log(inspect(o1, { sorted: (a, b) => b.localeCompare(a) }));
    // { c: Set(3) { 3, 2, 1 }, b: [ 2, 3, 1 ], a: '`a` comes before `b`' }
    
    const o2 = {
      c: new Set([2, 1, 3]),
      a: '`a` comes before `b`',
      b: [2, 3, 1],
    };
    assert.strict.equal(
      inspect(o1, { sorted: true }),
      inspect(o2, { sorted: true }),
    );const { inspect } = require('node:util');
    const assert = require('node:assert');
    
    const o1 = {
      b: [2, 3, 1],
      a: '`a` comes before `b`',
      c: new Set([2, 3, 1]),
    };
    console.log(inspect(o1, { sorted: true }));
    // { a: '`a` comes before `b`', b: [ 2, 3, 1 ], c: Set(3) { 1, 2, 3 } }
    console.log(inspect(o1, { sorted: (a, b) => b.localeCompare(a) }));
    // { c: Set(3) { 3, 2, 1 }, b: [ 2, 3, 1 ], a: '`a` comes before `b`' }
    
    const o2 = {
      c: new Set([2, 1, 3]),
      a: '`a` comes before `b`',
      b: [2, 3, 1],
    };
    assert.strict.equal(
      inspect(o1, { sorted: true }),
      inspect(o2, { sorted: true }),
    );copy

The `numericSeparator` option adds an underscore every three digits to all
numbers.

    
    
    import { inspect } from 'node:util';
    
    const thousand = 1000;
    const million = 1000000;
    const bigNumber = 123456789n;
    const bigDecimal = 1234.12345;
    
    console.log(inspect(thousand, { numericSeparator: true }));
    // 1_000
    console.log(inspect(million, { numericSeparator: true }));
    // 1_000_000
    console.log(inspect(bigNumber, { numericSeparator: true }));
    // 123_456_789n
    console.log(inspect(bigDecimal, { numericSeparator: true }));
    // 1_234.123_45const { inspect } = require('node:util');
    
    const thousand = 1000;
    const million = 1000000;
    const bigNumber = 123456789n;
    const bigDecimal = 1234.12345;
    
    console.log(inspect(thousand, { numericSeparator: true }));
    // 1_000
    console.log(inspect(million, { numericSeparator: true }));
    // 1_000_000
    console.log(inspect(bigNumber, { numericSeparator: true }));
    // 123_456_789n
    console.log(inspect(bigDecimal, { numericSeparator: true }));
    // 1_234.123_45copy

`util.inspect()` is a synchronous method intended for debugging. Its maximum
output length is approximately 128 MiB. Inputs that result in longer output
will be truncated.

#### Customizing `util.inspect` colors#

Color output (if enabled) of `util.inspect` is customizable globally via the
`util.inspect.styles` and `util.inspect.colors` properties.

`util.inspect.styles` is a map associating a style name to a color from
`util.inspect.colors`.

The default styles and associated colors are:

  * `bigint`: `yellow`
  * `boolean`: `yellow`
  * `date`: `magenta`
  * `module`: `underline`
  * `name`: (no styling)
  * `null`: `bold`
  * `number`: `yellow`
  * `regexp`: `red`
  * `special`: `cyan` (e.g., `Proxies`)
  * `string`: `green`
  * `symbol`: `green`
  * `undefined`: `grey`

Color styling uses ANSI control codes that may not be supported on all
terminals. To verify color support use `tty.hasColors()`.

Predefined control codes are listed below (grouped as "Modifiers", "Foreground
colors", and "Background colors").

##### Modifiers#

Modifier support varies throughout different terminals. They will mostly be
ignored, if not supported.

  * `reset` \- Resets all (color) modifiers to their defaults
  * **bold** \- Make text bold
  * _italic_ \- Make text italic
  * underline \- Make text underlined
  * ~~strikethrough~~ \- Puts a horizontal line through the center of the text (Alias: `strikeThrough`, `crossedout`, `crossedOut`)
  * `hidden` \- Prints the text, but makes it invisible (Alias: conceal)
  * dim \- Decreased color intensity (Alias: `faint`)
  * overlined \- Make text overlined
  * blink - Hides and shows the text in an interval
  * inverse \- Swap foreground and background colors (Alias: `swapcolors`, `swapColors`)
  * doubleunderline \- Make text double underlined (Alias: `doubleUnderline`)
  * framed \- Draw a frame around the text

##### Foreground colors#

  * `black`
  * `red`
  * `green`
  * `yellow`
  * `blue`
  * `magenta`
  * `cyan`
  * `white`
  * `gray` (alias: `grey`, `blackBright`)
  * `redBright`
  * `greenBright`
  * `yellowBright`
  * `blueBright`
  * `magentaBright`
  * `cyanBright`
  * `whiteBright`

##### Background colors#

  * `bgBlack`
  * `bgRed`
  * `bgGreen`
  * `bgYellow`
  * `bgBlue`
  * `bgMagenta`
  * `bgCyan`
  * `bgWhite`
  * `bgGray` (alias: `bgGrey`, `bgBlackBright`)
  * `bgRedBright`
  * `bgGreenBright`
  * `bgYellowBright`
  * `bgBlueBright`
  * `bgMagentaBright`
  * `bgCyanBright`
  * `bgWhiteBright`

#### Custom inspection functions on objects#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.3.0, v16.14.0 | The inspect argument is added for more interoperability.  
v0.1.97 | Added in: v0.1.97  
  
Objects may also define their own `[util.inspect.custom](depth, opts,
inspect)` function, which `util.inspect()` will invoke and use the result of
when inspecting the object.

    
    
    import { inspect } from 'node:util';
    
    class Box {
      constructor(value) {
        this.value = value;
      }
    
      [inspect.custom](depth, options, inspect) {
        if (depth < 0) {
          return options.stylize('[Box]', 'special');
        }
    
        const newOptions = Object.assign({}, options, {
          depth: options.depth === null ? null : options.depth - 1,
        });
    
        // Five space padding because that's the size of "Box< ".
        const padding = ' '.repeat(5);
        const inner = inspect(this.value, newOptions)
                      .replace(/\n/g, `\n${padding}`);
        return `${options.stylize('Box', 'special')}< ${inner} >`;
      }
    }
    
    const box = new Box(true);
    
    console.log(inspect(box));
    // "Box< true >"const { inspect } = require('node:util');
    
    class Box {
      constructor(value) {
        this.value = value;
      }
    
      [inspect.custom](depth, options, inspect) {
        if (depth < 0) {
          return options.stylize('[Box]', 'special');
        }
    
        const newOptions = Object.assign({}, options, {
          depth: options.depth === null ? null : options.depth - 1,
        });
    
        // Five space padding because that's the size of "Box< ".
        const padding = ' '.repeat(5);
        const inner = inspect(this.value, newOptions)
                      .replace(/\n/g, `\n${padding}`);
        return `${options.stylize('Box', 'special')}< ${inner} >`;
      }
    }
    
    const box = new Box(true);
    
    console.log(inspect(box));
    // "Box< true >"copy

Custom `[util.inspect.custom](depth, opts, inspect)` functions typically
return a string but may return a value of any type that will be formatted
accordingly by `util.inspect()`.

    
    
    import { inspect } from 'node:util';
    
    const obj = { foo: 'this will not show up in the inspect() output' };
    obj[inspect.custom] = (depth) => {
      return { bar: 'baz' };
    };
    
    console.log(inspect(obj));
    // "{ bar: 'baz' }"const { inspect } = require('node:util');
    
    const obj = { foo: 'this will not show up in the inspect() output' };
    obj[inspect.custom] = (depth) => {
      return { bar: 'baz' };
    };
    
    console.log(inspect(obj));
    // "{ bar: 'baz' }"copy

#### `util.inspect.custom`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v10.12.0 | This is now defined as a shared symbol.  
v6.6.0 | Added in: v6.6.0  
  
  * [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) that can be used to declare custom inspect functions.

In addition to being accessible through `util.inspect.custom`, this symbol is
[registered globally](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Symbol/for) and can be
accessed in any environment as `Symbol.for('nodejs.util.inspect.custom')`.

Using this allows code to be written in a portable fashion, so that the custom
inspect function is used in an Node.js environment and ignored in the browser.
The `util.inspect()` function itself is passed as third argument to the custom
inspect function to allow further portability.

    
    
    const customInspectSymbol = Symbol.for('nodejs.util.inspect.custom');
    
    class Password {
      constructor(value) {
        this.value = value;
      }
    
      toString() {
        return 'xxxxxxxx';
      }
    
      [customInspectSymbol](depth, inspectOptions, inspect) {
        return `Password <${this.toString()}>`;
      }
    }
    
    const password = new Password('r0sebud');
    console.log(password);
    // Prints Password <xxxxxxxx> copy

See Custom inspection functions on Objects for more details.

#### `util.inspect.defaultOptions`#

Added in: v6.4.0

The `defaultOptions` value allows customization of the default options used by
`util.inspect`. This is useful for functions like `console.log` or
`util.format` which implicitly call into `util.inspect`. It shall be set to an
object containing one or more valid `util.inspect()` options. Setting option
properties directly is also supported.

    
    
    import { inspect } from 'node:util';
    const arr = Array(156).fill(0);
    
    console.log(arr); // Logs the truncated array
    inspect.defaultOptions.maxArrayLength = null;
    console.log(arr); // logs the full arrayconst { inspect } = require('node:util');
    const arr = Array(156).fill(0);
    
    console.log(arr); // Logs the truncated array
    inspect.defaultOptions.maxArrayLength = null;
    console.log(arr); // logs the full arraycopy

### `util.isDeepStrictEqual(val1, val2)`#

Added in: v9.0.0

  * `val1` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `val2` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if there is deep strict equality between `val1` and `val2`.
Otherwise, returns `false`.

See `assert.deepStrictEqual()` for more information about deep strict
equality.

### Class: `util.MIMEType`#

Added in: v19.1.0, v18.13.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

An implementation of [the MIMEType class](https://bmeck.github.io/node-
proposal-mime-api/).

In accordance with browser conventions, all properties of `MIMEType` objects
are implemented as getters and setters on the class prototype, rather than as
data properties on the object itself.

A MIME string is a structured string containing multiple meaningful
components. When parsed, a `MIMEType` object is returned containing properties
for each of these components.

#### Constructor: `new MIMEType(input)`#

  * `input` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The input MIME to parse

Creates a new `MIMEType` object by parsing the `input`.

    
    
    import { MIMEType } from 'node:util';
    
    const myMIME = new MIMEType('text/plain');const { MIMEType } = require('node:util');
    
    const myMIME = new MIMEType('text/plain');copy

A `TypeError` will be thrown if the `input` is not a valid MIME. Note that an
effort will be made to coerce the given values into strings. For instance:

    
    
    import { MIMEType } from 'node:util';
    const myMIME = new MIMEType({ toString: () => 'text/plain' });
    console.log(String(myMIME));
    // Prints: text/plainconst { MIMEType } = require('node:util');
    const myMIME = new MIMEType({ toString: () => 'text/plain' });
    console.log(String(myMIME));
    // Prints: text/plaincopy

#### `mime.type`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Gets and sets the type portion of the MIME.

    
    
    import { MIMEType } from 'node:util';
    
    const myMIME = new MIMEType('text/javascript');
    console.log(myMIME.type);
    // Prints: text
    myMIME.type = 'application';
    console.log(myMIME.type);
    // Prints: application
    console.log(String(myMIME));
    // Prints: application/javascriptconst { MIMEType } = require('node:util');
    
    const myMIME = new MIMEType('text/javascript');
    console.log(myMIME.type);
    // Prints: text
    myMIME.type = 'application';
    console.log(myMIME.type);
    // Prints: application
    console.log(String(myMIME));
    // Prints: application/javascriptcopy

#### `mime.subtype`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Gets and sets the subtype portion of the MIME.

    
    
    import { MIMEType } from 'node:util';
    
    const myMIME = new MIMEType('text/ecmascript');
    console.log(myMIME.subtype);
    // Prints: ecmascript
    myMIME.subtype = 'javascript';
    console.log(myMIME.subtype);
    // Prints: javascript
    console.log(String(myMIME));
    // Prints: text/javascriptconst { MIMEType } = require('node:util');
    
    const myMIME = new MIMEType('text/ecmascript');
    console.log(myMIME.subtype);
    // Prints: ecmascript
    myMIME.subtype = 'javascript';
    console.log(myMIME.subtype);
    // Prints: javascript
    console.log(String(myMIME));
    // Prints: text/javascriptcopy

#### `mime.essence`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Gets the essence of the MIME. This property is read only. Use `mime.type` or
`mime.subtype` to alter the MIME.

    
    
    import { MIMEType } from 'node:util';
    
    const myMIME = new MIMEType('text/javascript;key=value');
    console.log(myMIME.essence);
    // Prints: text/javascript
    myMIME.type = 'application';
    console.log(myMIME.essence);
    // Prints: application/javascript
    console.log(String(myMIME));
    // Prints: application/javascript;key=valueconst { MIMEType } = require('node:util');
    
    const myMIME = new MIMEType('text/javascript;key=value');
    console.log(myMIME.essence);
    // Prints: text/javascript
    myMIME.type = 'application';
    console.log(myMIME.essence);
    // Prints: application/javascript
    console.log(String(myMIME));
    // Prints: application/javascript;key=valuecopy

#### `mime.params`#

  * <MIMEParams>

Gets the `MIMEParams` object representing the parameters of the MIME. This
property is read-only. See `MIMEParams` documentation for details.

#### `mime.toString()`#

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `toString()` method on the `MIMEType` object returns the serialized MIME.

Because of the need for standard compliance, this method does not allow users
to customize the serialization process of the MIME.

#### `mime.toJSON()`#

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Alias for `mime.toString()`.

This method is automatically called when an `MIMEType` object is serialized
with [`JSON.stringify()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/JSON/stringify).

    
    
    import { MIMEType } from 'node:util';
    
    const myMIMES = [
      new MIMEType('image/png'),
      new MIMEType('image/gif'),
    ];
    console.log(JSON.stringify(myMIMES));
    // Prints: ["image/png", "image/gif"]const { MIMEType } = require('node:util');
    
    const myMIMES = [
      new MIMEType('image/png'),
      new MIMEType('image/gif'),
    ];
    console.log(JSON.stringify(myMIMES));
    // Prints: ["image/png", "image/gif"]copy

### Class: `util.MIMEParams`#

Added in: v19.1.0, v18.13.0

The `MIMEParams` API provides read and write access to the parameters of a
`MIMEType`.

#### Constructor: `new MIMEParams()`#

Creates a new `MIMEParams` object by with empty parameters

    
    
    import { MIMEParams } from 'node:util';
    
    const myParams = new MIMEParams();const { MIMEParams } = require('node:util');
    
    const myParams = new MIMEParams();copy

#### `mimeParams.delete(name)`#

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Remove all name-value pairs whose name is `name`.

#### `mimeParams.entries()`#

  * Returns: [<Iterator>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterator_protocol)

Returns an iterator over each of the name-value pairs in the parameters. Each
item of the iterator is a JavaScript `Array`. The first item of the array is
the `name`, the second item of the array is the `value`.

#### `mimeParams.get(name)`#

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) A string or `null` if there is no name-value pair with the given `name`.

Returns the value of the first name-value pair whose name is `name`. If there
are no such pairs, `null` is returned.

#### `mimeParams.has(name)`#

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if there is at least one name-value pair whose name is `name`.

#### `mimeParams.keys()`#

  * Returns: [<Iterator>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterator_protocol)

Returns an iterator over the names of each name-value pair.

    
    
    import { MIMEType } from 'node:util';
    
    const { params } = new MIMEType('text/plain;foo=0;bar=1');
    for (const name of params.keys()) {
      console.log(name);
    }
    // Prints:
    //   foo
    //   barconst { MIMEType } = require('node:util');
    
    const { params } = new MIMEType('text/plain;foo=0;bar=1');
    for (const name of params.keys()) {
      console.log(name);
    }
    // Prints:
    //   foo
    //   barcopy

#### `mimeParams.set(name, value)`#

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `value` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Sets the value in the `MIMEParams` object associated with `name` to `value`.
If there are any pre-existing name-value pairs whose names are `name`, set the
first such pair's value to `value`.

    
    
    import { MIMEType } from 'node:util';
    
    const { params } = new MIMEType('text/plain;foo=0;bar=1');
    params.set('foo', 'def');
    params.set('baz', 'xyz');
    console.log(params.toString());
    // Prints: foo=def;bar=1;baz=xyzconst { MIMEType } = require('node:util');
    
    const { params } = new MIMEType('text/plain;foo=0;bar=1');
    params.set('foo', 'def');
    params.set('baz', 'xyz');
    console.log(params.toString());
    // Prints: foo=def;bar=1;baz=xyzcopy

#### `mimeParams.values()`#

  * Returns: [<Iterator>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterator_protocol)

Returns an iterator over the values of each name-value pair.

#### `mimeParams[@@iterator]()`#

  * Returns: [<Iterator>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterator_protocol)

Alias for `mimeParams.entries()`.

    
    
    import { MIMEType } from 'node:util';
    
    const { params } = new MIMEType('text/plain;foo=bar;xyz=baz');
    for (const [name, value] of params) {
      console.log(name, value);
    }
    // Prints:
    //   foo bar
    //   xyz bazconst { MIMEType } = require('node:util');
    
    const { params } = new MIMEType('text/plain;foo=bar;xyz=baz');
    for (const [name, value] of params) {
      console.log(name, value);
    }
    // Prints:
    //   foo bar
    //   xyz bazcopy

### `util.parseArgs([config])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.4.0, v20.16.0 | add support for allowing negative options in input `config`.  
v20.0.0 | The API is no longer experimental.  
v18.11.0, v16.19.0 | Add support for default values in input `config`.  
v18.7.0, v16.17.0 | add support for returning detailed parse information using `tokens` in input `config` and returned properties.  
v18.3.0, v16.17.0 | Added in: v18.3.0, v16.17.0  
  
  * `config` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Used to provide arguments for parsing and to configure the parser. `config` supports the following properties:

    * `args` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) array of argument strings. **Default:** `process.argv` with `execPath` and `filename` removed.
    * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Used to describe arguments known to the parser. Keys of `options` are the long names of options and values are an [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) accepting the following properties: 
      * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Type of argument, which must be either `boolean` or `string`.
      * `multiple` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether this option can be provided multiple times. If `true`, all values will be collected in an array. If `false`, values for the option are last-wins. **Default:** `false`.
      * `short` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) A single character alias for the option.
      * `default` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<boolean[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) The default value to be used if (and only if) the option does not appear in the arguments to be parsed. It must be of the same type as the `type` property. When `multiple` is `true`, it must be an array.
    * `strict` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Should an error be thrown when unknown arguments are encountered, or when arguments are passed that do not match the `type` configured in `options`. **Default:** `true`.
    * `allowPositionals` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Whether this command accepts positional arguments. **Default:** `false` if `strict` is `true`, otherwise `true`.
    * `allowNegative` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, allows explicitly setting boolean options to `false` by prefixing the option name with `--no-`. **Default:** `false`.
    * `tokens` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Return the parsed tokens. This is useful for extending the built-in behavior, from adding additional checks through to reprocessing the tokens in different ways. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The parsed command line arguments:

    * `values` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) A mapping of parsed option names with their [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) or [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) values.
    * `positionals` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Positional arguments.
    * `tokens` [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) See parseArgs tokens section. Only returned if `config` includes `tokens: true`.

Provides a higher level API for command-line argument parsing than interacting
with `process.argv` directly. Takes a specification for the expected arguments
and returns a structured object with the parsed options and positionals.

    
    
    import { parseArgs } from 'node:util';
    const args = ['-f', '--bar', 'b'];
    const options = {
      foo: {
        type: 'boolean',
        short: 'f',
      },
      bar: {
        type: 'string',
      },
    };
    const {
      values,
      positionals,
    } = parseArgs({ args, options });
    console.log(values, positionals);
    // Prints: [Object: null prototype] { foo: true, bar: 'b' } []const { parseArgs } = require('node:util');
    const args = ['-f', '--bar', 'b'];
    const options = {
      foo: {
        type: 'boolean',
        short: 'f',
      },
      bar: {
        type: 'string',
      },
    };
    const {
      values,
      positionals,
    } = parseArgs({ args, options });
    console.log(values, positionals);
    // Prints: [Object: null prototype] { foo: true, bar: 'b' } []copy

#### `parseArgs` `tokens`#

Detailed parse information is available for adding custom behaviors by
specifying `tokens: true` in the configuration. The returned tokens have
properties describing:

  * all tokens 
    * `kind` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) One of 'option', 'positional', or 'option-terminator'.
    * `index` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Index of element in `args` containing token. So the source argument for a token is `args[token.index]`.
  * option tokens 
    * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Long name of option.
    * `rawName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) How option used in args, like `-f` of `--foo`.
    * `value` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Option value specified in args. Undefined for boolean options.
    * `inlineValue` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Whether option value specified inline, like `--foo=bar`.
  * positional tokens 
    * `value` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The value of the positional argument in args (i.e. `args[index]`).
  * option-terminator token

The returned tokens are in the order encountered in the input args. Options
that appear more than once in args produce a token for each use. Short option
groups like `-xy` expand to a token for each option. So `-xxx` produces three
tokens.

For example, to add support for a negated option like `--no-color` (which
`allowNegative` supports when the option is of `boolean` type), the returned
tokens can be reprocessed to change the value stored for the negated option.

    
    
    import { parseArgs } from 'node:util';
    
    const options = {
      'color': { type: 'boolean' },
      'no-color': { type: 'boolean' },
      'logfile': { type: 'string' },
      'no-logfile': { type: 'boolean' },
    };
    const { values, tokens } = parseArgs({ options, tokens: true });
    
    // Reprocess the option tokens and overwrite the returned values.
    tokens
      .filter((token) => token.kind === 'option')
      .forEach((token) => {
        if (token.name.startsWith('no-')) {
          // Store foo:false for --no-foo
          const positiveName = token.name.slice(3);
          values[positiveName] = false;
          delete values[token.name];
        } else {
          // Resave value so last one wins if both --foo and --no-foo.
          values[token.name] = token.value ?? true;
        }
      });
    
    const color = values.color;
    const logfile = values.logfile ?? 'default.log';
    
    console.log({ logfile, color });const { parseArgs } = require('node:util');
    
    const options = {
      'color': { type: 'boolean' },
      'no-color': { type: 'boolean' },
      'logfile': { type: 'string' },
      'no-logfile': { type: 'boolean' },
    };
    const { values, tokens } = parseArgs({ options, tokens: true });
    
    // Reprocess the option tokens and overwrite the returned values.
    tokens
      .filter((token) => token.kind === 'option')
      .forEach((token) => {
        if (token.name.startsWith('no-')) {
          // Store foo:false for --no-foo
          const positiveName = token.name.slice(3);
          values[positiveName] = false;
          delete values[token.name];
        } else {
          // Resave value so last one wins if both --foo and --no-foo.
          values[token.name] = token.value ?? true;
        }
      });
    
    const color = values.color;
    const logfile = values.logfile ?? 'default.log';
    
    console.log({ logfile, color });copy

Example usage showing negated options, and when an option is used multiple
ways then last one wins.

    
    
    $ node negate.js
    { logfile: 'default.log', color: undefined }
    $ node negate.js --no-logfile --no-color
    { logfile: false, color: false }
    $ node negate.js --logfile=test.log --color
    { logfile: 'test.log', color: true }
    $ node negate.js --no-logfile --logfile=test.log --color --no-color
    { logfile: 'test.log', color: false } copy

### `util.parseEnv(content)`#

Added in: v21.7.0, v20.12.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

  * `content` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The raw contents of a `.env` file.

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Given an example `.env` file:

    
    
    const { parseEnv } = require('node:util');
    
    parseEnv('HELLO=world\nHELLO=oh my\n');
    // Returns: { HELLO: 'oh my' }import { parseEnv } from 'node:util';
    
    parseEnv('HELLO=world\nHELLO=oh my\n');
    // Returns: { HELLO: 'oh my' }copy

### `util.promisify(original)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.8.0 | Calling `promisify` on a function that returns a `Promise` is deprecated.  
v8.0.0 | Added in: v8.0.0  
  
  * `original` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
  * Returns: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Takes a function following the common error-first callback style, i.e. taking
an `(err, value) => ...` callback as the last argument, and returns a version
that returns promises.

    
    
    import { promisify } from 'node:util';
    import { stat } from 'node:fs';
    
    const promisifiedStat = promisify(stat);
    promisifiedStat('.').then((stats) => {
      // Do something with `stats`
    }).catch((error) => {
      // Handle the error.
    });const { promisify } = require('node:util');
    const { stat } = require('node:fs');
    
    const promisifiedStat = promisify(stat);
    promisifiedStat('.').then((stats) => {
      // Do something with `stats`
    }).catch((error) => {
      // Handle the error.
    });copy

Or, equivalently using `async function`s:

    
    
    import { promisify } from 'node:util';
    import { stat } from 'node:fs';
    
    const promisifiedStat = promisify(stat);
    
    async function callStat() {
      const stats = await promisifiedStat('.');
      console.log(`This directory is owned by ${stats.uid}`);
    }
    
    callStat();const { promisify } = require('node:util');
    const { stat } = require('node:fs');
    
    const promisifiedStat = promisify(stat);
    
    async function callStat() {
      const stats = await promisifiedStat('.');
      console.log(`This directory is owned by ${stats.uid}`);
    }
    
    callStat();copy

If there is an `original[util.promisify.custom]` property present, `promisify`
will return its value, see Custom promisified functions.

`promisify()` assumes that `original` is a function taking a callback as its
final argument in all cases. If `original` is not a function, `promisify()`
will throw an error. If `original` is a function but its last argument is not
an error-first callback, it will still be passed an error-first callback as
its last argument.

Using `promisify()` on class methods or other methods that use `this` may not
work as expected unless handled specially:

    
    
    import { promisify } from 'node:util';
    
    class Foo {
      constructor() {
        this.a = 42;
      }
    
      bar(callback) {
        callback(null, this.a);
      }
    }
    
    const foo = new Foo();
    
    const naiveBar = promisify(foo.bar);
    // TypeError: Cannot read properties of undefined (reading 'a')
    // naiveBar().then(a => console.log(a));
    
    naiveBar.call(foo).then((a) => console.log(a)); // '42'
    
    const bindBar = naiveBar.bind(foo);
    bindBar().then((a) => console.log(a)); // '42'const { promisify } = require('node:util');
    
    class Foo {
      constructor() {
        this.a = 42;
      }
    
      bar(callback) {
        callback(null, this.a);
      }
    }
    
    const foo = new Foo();
    
    const naiveBar = promisify(foo.bar);
    // TypeError: Cannot read properties of undefined (reading 'a')
    // naiveBar().then(a => console.log(a));
    
    naiveBar.call(foo).then((a) => console.log(a)); // '42'
    
    const bindBar = naiveBar.bind(foo);
    bindBar().then((a) => console.log(a)); // '42'copy

#### Custom promisified functions#

Using the `util.promisify.custom` symbol one can override the return value of
`util.promisify()`:

    
    
    import { promisify } from 'node:util';
    
    function doSomething(foo, callback) {
      // ...
    }
    
    doSomething[promisify.custom] = (foo) => {
      return getPromiseSomehow();
    };
    
    const promisified = promisify(doSomething);
    console.log(promisified === doSomething[promisify.custom]);
    // prints 'true'const { promisify } = require('node:util');
    
    function doSomething(foo, callback) {
      // ...
    }
    
    doSomething[promisify.custom] = (foo) => {
      return getPromiseSomehow();
    };
    
    const promisified = promisify(doSomething);
    console.log(promisified === doSomething[promisify.custom]);
    // prints 'true'copy

This can be useful for cases where the original function does not follow the
standard format of taking an error-first callback as the last argument.

For example, with a function that takes in `(foo, onSuccessCallback,
onErrorCallback)`:

    
    
    doSomething[util.promisify.custom] = (foo) => {
      return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
        doSomething(foo, resolve, reject);
      });
    }; copy

If `promisify.custom` is defined but is not a function, `promisify()` will
throw an error.

#### `util.promisify.custom`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v13.12.0, v12.16.2 | This is now defined as a shared symbol.  
v8.0.0 | Added in: v8.0.0  
  
  * [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type) that can be used to declare custom promisified variants of functions, see Custom promisified functions.

In addition to being accessible through `util.promisify.custom`, this symbol
is [registered globally](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Symbol/for) and can be
accessed in any environment as `Symbol.for('nodejs.util.promisify.custom')`.

For example, with a function that takes in `(foo, onSuccessCallback,
onErrorCallback)`:

    
    
    const kCustomPromisifiedSymbol = Symbol.for('nodejs.util.promisify.custom');
    
    doSomething[kCustomPromisifiedSymbol] = (foo) => {
      return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
        doSomething(foo, resolve, reject);
      });
    }; copy

### `util.stripVTControlCharacters(str)`#

Added in: v16.11.0

  * `str` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns `str` with any ANSI escape codes removed.

    
    
    console.log(util.stripVTControlCharacters('\u001B[4mvalue\u001B[0m'));
    // Prints "value" copy

### `util.styleText(format, text[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.5.0 | styleText is now stable.  
v22.8.0, v20.18.0 | Respect isTTY and environment variables such as NO_COLORS, NODE_DISABLE_COLORS, and FORCE_COLOR.  
v21.7.0, v20.12.0 | Added in: v21.7.0, v20.12.0  
  
  * `format` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) A text format or an Array of text formats defined in `util.inspect.colors`.
  * `text` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The text to to be formatted.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `validateStream` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When true, `stream` is checked to see if it can handle colors. **Default:** `true`.
    * `stream` <Stream> A stream that will be validated if it can be colored. **Default:** `process.stdout`.

This function returns a formatted text considering the `format` passed for
printing in a terminal. It is aware of the terminal's capabilities and acts
according to the configuration set via `NO_COLORS`, `NODE_DISABLE_COLORS` and
`FORCE_COLOR` environment variables.

    
    
    import { styleText } from 'node:util';
    import { stderr } from 'node:process';
    
    const successMessage = styleText('green', 'Success!');
    console.log(successMessage);
    
    const errorMessage = styleText(
      'red',
      'Error! Error!',
      // Validate if process.stderr has TTY
      { stream: stderr },
    );
    console.error(errorMessage);const { styleText } = require('node:util');
    const { stderr } = require('node:process');
    
    const successMessage = styleText('green', 'Success!');
    console.log(successMessage);
    
    const errorMessage = styleText(
      'red',
      'Error! Error!',
      // Validate if process.stderr has TTY
      { stream: stderr },
    );
    console.error(errorMessage);copy

`util.inspect.colors` also provides text formats such as `italic`, and
`underline` and you can combine both:

    
    
    console.log(
      util.styleText(['underline', 'italic'], 'My italic underlined message'),
    ); copy

When passing an array of formats, the order of the format applied is left to
right so the following style might overwrite the previous one.

    
    
    console.log(
      util.styleText(['red', 'green'], 'text'), // green
    ); copy

The full list of formats can be found in modifiers.

### Class: `util.TextDecoder`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.0.0 | The class is now available on the global object.  
v8.3.0 | Added in: v8.3.0  
  
An implementation of the [WHATWG Encoding
Standard](https://encoding.spec.whatwg.org/) `TextDecoder` API.

    
    
    const decoder = new TextDecoder();
    const u8arr = new Uint8Array([72, 101, 108, 108, 111]);
    console.log(decoder.decode(u8arr)); // Hello copy

#### WHATWG supported encodings#

Per the [WHATWG Encoding Standard](https://encoding.spec.whatwg.org/), the
encodings supported by the `TextDecoder` API are outlined in the tables below.
For each encoding, one or more aliases may be used.

Different Node.js build configurations support different sets of encodings.
(see [Internationalization](intl.html))

##### Encodings supported by default (with full ICU data)#

Encoding| Aliases  
---|---  
`'ibm866'`| `'866'`, `'cp866'`, `'csibm866'`  
`'iso-8859-2'`| `'csisolatin2'`, `'iso-ir-101'`, `'iso8859-2'`, `'iso88592'`,
`'iso_8859-2'`, `'iso_8859-2:1987'`, `'l2'`, `'latin2'`  
`'iso-8859-3'`| `'csisolatin3'`, `'iso-ir-109'`, `'iso8859-3'`, `'iso88593'`,
`'iso_8859-3'`, `'iso_8859-3:1988'`, `'l3'`, `'latin3'`  
`'iso-8859-4'`| `'csisolatin4'`, `'iso-ir-110'`, `'iso8859-4'`, `'iso88594'`,
`'iso_8859-4'`, `'iso_8859-4:1988'`, `'l4'`, `'latin4'`  
`'iso-8859-5'`| `'csisolatincyrillic'`, `'cyrillic'`, `'iso-ir-144'`,
`'iso8859-5'`, `'iso88595'`, `'iso_8859-5'`, `'iso_8859-5:1988'`  
`'iso-8859-6'`| `'arabic'`, `'asmo-708'`, `'csiso88596e'`, `'csiso88596i'`,
`'csisolatinarabic'`, `'ecma-114'`, `'iso-8859-6-e'`, `'iso-8859-6-i'`, `'iso-
ir-127'`, `'iso8859-6'`, `'iso88596'`, `'iso_8859-6'`, `'iso_8859-6:1987'`  
`'iso-8859-7'`| `'csisolatingreek'`, `'ecma-118'`, `'elot_928'`, `'greek'`,
`'greek8'`, `'iso-ir-126'`, `'iso8859-7'`, `'iso88597'`, `'iso_8859-7'`,
`'iso_8859-7:1987'`, `'sun_eu_greek'`  
`'iso-8859-8'`| `'csiso88598e'`, `'csisolatinhebrew'`, `'hebrew'`,
`'iso-8859-8-e'`, `'iso-ir-138'`, `'iso8859-8'`, `'iso88598'`, `'iso_8859-8'`,
`'iso_8859-8:1988'`, `'visual'`  
`'iso-8859-8-i'`| `'csiso88598i'`, `'logical'`  
`'iso-8859-10'`| `'csisolatin6'`, `'iso-ir-157'`, `'iso8859-10'`,
`'iso885910'`, `'l6'`, `'latin6'`  
`'iso-8859-13'`| `'iso8859-13'`, `'iso885913'`  
`'iso-8859-14'`| `'iso8859-14'`, `'iso885914'`  
`'iso-8859-15'`| `'csisolatin9'`, `'iso8859-15'`, `'iso885915'`,
`'iso_8859-15'`, `'l9'`  
`'koi8-r'`| `'cskoi8r'`, `'koi'`, `'koi8'`, `'koi8_r'`  
`'koi8-u'`| `'koi8-ru'`  
`'macintosh'`| `'csmacintosh'`, `'mac'`, `'x-mac-roman'`  
`'windows-874'`| `'dos-874'`, `'iso-8859-11'`, `'iso8859-11'`, `'iso885911'`,
`'tis-620'`  
`'windows-1250'`| `'cp1250'`, `'x-cp1250'`  
`'windows-1251'`| `'cp1251'`, `'x-cp1251'`  
`'windows-1252'`| `'ansi_x3.4-1968'`, `'ascii'`, `'cp1252'`, `'cp819'`,
`'csisolatin1'`, `'ibm819'`, `'iso-8859-1'`, `'iso-ir-100'`, `'iso8859-1'`,
`'iso88591'`, `'iso_8859-1'`, `'iso_8859-1:1987'`, `'l1'`, `'latin1'`, `'us-
ascii'`, `'x-cp1252'`  
`'windows-1253'`| `'cp1253'`, `'x-cp1253'`  
`'windows-1254'`| `'cp1254'`, `'csisolatin5'`, `'iso-8859-9'`, `'iso-ir-148'`,
`'iso8859-9'`, `'iso88599'`, `'iso_8859-9'`, `'iso_8859-9:1989'`, `'l5'`,
`'latin5'`, `'x-cp1254'`  
`'windows-1255'`| `'cp1255'`, `'x-cp1255'`  
`'windows-1256'`| `'cp1256'`, `'x-cp1256'`  
`'windows-1257'`| `'cp1257'`, `'x-cp1257'`  
`'windows-1258'`| `'cp1258'`, `'x-cp1258'`  
`'x-mac-cyrillic'`| `'x-mac-ukrainian'`  
`'gbk'`| `'chinese'`, `'csgb2312'`, `'csiso58gb231280'`, `'gb2312'`,
`'gb_2312'`, `'gb_2312-80'`, `'iso-ir-58'`, `'x-gbk'`  
`'gb18030'`|  
`'big5'`| `'big5-hkscs'`, `'cn-big5'`, `'csbig5'`, `'x-x-big5'`  
`'euc-jp'`| `'cseucpkdfmtjapanese'`, `'x-euc-jp'`  
`'iso-2022-jp'`| `'csiso2022jp'`  
`'shift_jis'`| `'csshiftjis'`, `'ms932'`, `'ms_kanji'`, `'shift-jis'`,
`'sjis'`, `'windows-31j'`, `'x-sjis'`  
`'euc-kr'`| `'cseuckr'`, `'csksc56011987'`, `'iso-ir-149'`, `'korean'`,
`'ks_c_5601-1987'`, `'ks_c_5601-1989'`, `'ksc5601'`, `'ksc_5601'`,
`'windows-949'`  
  
##### Encodings supported when Node.js is built with the `small-icu` option#

Encoding| Aliases  
---|---  
`'utf-8'`| `'unicode-1-1-utf-8'`, `'utf8'`  
`'utf-16le'`| `'utf-16'`  
`'utf-16be'`|  
  
##### Encodings supported when ICU is disabled#

Encoding| Aliases  
---|---  
`'utf-8'`| `'unicode-1-1-utf-8'`, `'utf8'`  
`'utf-16le'`| `'utf-16'`  
  
The `'iso-8859-16'` encoding listed in the [WHATWG Encoding
Standard](https://encoding.spec.whatwg.org/) is not supported.

#### `new TextDecoder([encoding[, options]])`#

  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Identifies the `encoding` that this `TextDecoder` instance supports. **Default:** `'utf-8'`.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `fatal` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if decoding failures are fatal. This option is not supported when ICU is disabled (see [Internationalization](intl.html)). **Default:** `false`.
    * `ignoreBOM` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, the `TextDecoder` will include the byte order mark in the decoded result. When `false`, the byte order mark will be removed from the output. This option is only used when `encoding` is `'utf-8'`, `'utf-16be'`, or `'utf-16le'`. **Default:** `false`.

Creates a new `TextDecoder` instance. The `encoding` may specify one of the
supported encodings or an alias.

The `TextDecoder` class is also available on the global object.

#### `textDecoder.decode([input[, options]])`#

  * `input` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) An `ArrayBuffer`, `DataView`, or `TypedArray` instance containing the encoded data.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `stream` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if additional chunks of data are expected. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Decodes the `input` and returns a string. If `options.stream` is `true`, any
incomplete byte sequences occurring at the end of the `input` are buffered
internally and emitted after the next call to `textDecoder.decode()`.

If `textDecoder.fatal` is `true`, decoding errors that occur will result in a
`TypeError` being thrown.

#### `textDecoder.encoding`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The encoding supported by the `TextDecoder` instance.

#### `textDecoder.fatal`#

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The value will be `true` if decoding errors result in a `TypeError` being
thrown.

#### `textDecoder.ignoreBOM`#

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The value will be `true` if the decoding result will include the byte order
mark.

### Class: `util.TextEncoder`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.0.0 | The class is now available on the global object.  
v8.3.0 | Added in: v8.3.0  
  
An implementation of the [WHATWG Encoding
Standard](https://encoding.spec.whatwg.org/) `TextEncoder` API. All instances
of `TextEncoder` only support UTF-8 encoding.

    
    
    const encoder = new TextEncoder();
    const uint8array = encoder.encode('this is some data'); copy

The `TextEncoder` class is also available on the global object.

#### `textEncoder.encode([input])`#

  * `input` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The text to encode. **Default:** an empty string.
  * Returns: [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array)

UTF-8 encodes the `input` string and returns a `Uint8Array` containing the
encoded bytes.

#### `textEncoder.encodeInto(src, dest)`#

Added in: v12.11.0

  * `src` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The text to encode.
  * `dest` [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) The array to hold the encode result.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `read` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The read Unicode code units of src.
    * `written` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The written UTF-8 bytes of dest.

UTF-8 encodes the `src` string to the `dest` Uint8Array and returns an object
containing the read Unicode code units and written UTF-8 bytes.

    
    
    const encoder = new TextEncoder();
    const src = 'this is some data';
    const dest = new Uint8Array(10);
    const { read, written } = encoder.encodeInto(src, dest); copy

#### `textEncoder.encoding`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The encoding supported by the `TextEncoder` instance. Always set to `'utf-8'`.

### `util.toUSVString(string)`#

Added in: v16.8.0, v14.18.0

  * `string` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Returns the `string` after replacing any surrogate code points (or
equivalently, any unpaired surrogate code units) with the Unicode "replacement
character" U+FFFD.

### `util.transferableAbortController()`#

Added in: v18.11.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Creates and returns an <AbortController> instance whose <AbortSignal> is
marked as transferable and can be used with `structuredClone()` or
`postMessage()`.

### `util.transferableAbortSignal(signal)`#

Added in: v18.11.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `signal` <AbortSignal>
  * Returns: <AbortSignal>

Marks the given <AbortSignal> as transferable so that it can be used with
`structuredClone()` and `postMessage()`.

    
    
    const signal = transferableAbortSignal(AbortSignal.timeout(100));
    const channel = new MessageChannel();
    channel.port2.postMessage(signal, [signal]); copy

### `util.aborted(signal, resource)`#

Added in: v19.7.0, v18.16.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `signal` <AbortSignal>
  * `resource` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Any non-null object tied to the abortable operation and held weakly. If `resource` is garbage collected before the `signal` aborts, the promise remains pending, allowing Node.js to stop tracking it. This helps prevent memory leaks in long-running or non-cancelable operations.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Listens to abort event on the provided `signal` and returns a promise that
resolves when the `signal` is aborted. If `resource` is provided, it weakly
references the operation's associated object, so if `resource` is garbage
collected before the `signal` aborts, then returned promise shall remain
pending. This prevents memory leaks in long-running or non-cancelable
operations.

    
    
    const { aborted } = require('node:util');
    
    // Obtain an object with an abortable signal, like a custom resource or operation.
    const dependent = obtainSomethingAbortable();
    
    // Pass `dependent` as the resource, indicating the promise should only resolve
    // if `dependent` is still in memory when the signal is aborted.
    aborted(dependent.signal, dependent).then(() => {
    
      // This code runs when `dependent` is aborted.
      console.log('Dependent resource was aborted.');
    });
    
    // Simulate an event that triggers the abort.
    dependent.on('event', () => {
      dependent.abort(); // This will cause the `aborted` promise to resolve.
    });import { aborted } from 'node:util';
    
    // Obtain an object with an abortable signal, like a custom resource or operation.
    const dependent = obtainSomethingAbortable();
    
    // Pass `dependent` as the resource, indicating the promise should only resolve
    // if `dependent` is still in memory when the signal is aborted.
    aborted(dependent.signal, dependent).then(() => {
    
      // This code runs when `dependent` is aborted.
      console.log('Dependent resource was aborted.');
    });
    
    // Simulate an event that triggers the abort.
    dependent.on('event', () => {
      dependent.abort(); // This will cause the `aborted` promise to resolve.
    });copy

### `util.types`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.3.0 | Exposed as `require('util/types')`.  
v10.0.0 | Added in: v10.0.0  
  
`util.types` provides type checks for different kinds of built-in objects.
Unlike `instanceof` or `Object.prototype.toString.call(value)`, these checks
do not inspect properties of the object that are accessible from JavaScript
(like their prototype), and usually have the overhead of calling into C++.

The result generally does not make any guarantees about what kinds of
properties or behavior a value exposes in JavaScript. They are primarily
useful for addon developers who prefer to do type checking in JavaScript.

The API is accessible via `require('node:util').types` or
`require('node:util/types')`.

#### `util.types.isAnyArrayBuffer(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) or
[<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer) instance.

See also `util.types.isArrayBuffer()` and `util.types.isSharedArrayBuffer()`.

    
    
    util.types.isAnyArrayBuffer(new ArrayBuffer());  // Returns true
    util.types.isAnyArrayBuffer(new SharedArrayBuffer());  // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isArrayBufferView(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is an instance of one of the
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) views, such as
typed array objects or [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView). Equivalent to
[`ArrayBuffer.isView()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer/isView).

    
    
    util.types.isArrayBufferView(new Int8Array());  // true
    util.types.isArrayBufferView(Buffer.from('hello world')); // true
    util.types.isArrayBufferView(new DataView(new ArrayBuffer(16)));  // true
    util.types.isArrayBufferView(new ArrayBuffer());  // false copy

#### `util.types.isArgumentsObject(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is an `arguments` object.

    
    
    function foo() {
      util.types.isArgumentsObject(arguments);  // Returns true
    } copy

#### `util.types.isArrayBuffer(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) instance. This
does _not_ include [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer) instances.
Usually, it is desirable to test for both; See `util.types.isAnyArrayBuffer()`
for that.

    
    
    util.types.isArrayBuffer(new ArrayBuffer());  // Returns true
    util.types.isArrayBuffer(new SharedArrayBuffer());  // Returns false copy

#### `util.types.isAsyncFunction(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is an [async
function](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/async_function). This only reports
back what the JavaScript engine is seeing; in particular, the return value may
not match the original source code if a transpilation tool was used.

    
    
    util.types.isAsyncFunction(function foo() {});  // Returns false
    util.types.isAsyncFunction(async function foo() {});  // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isBigInt64Array(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a `BigInt64Array` instance.

    
    
    util.types.isBigInt64Array(new BigInt64Array());   // Returns true
    util.types.isBigInt64Array(new BigUint64Array());  // Returns false copy

#### `util.types.isBigIntObject(value)`#

Added in: v10.4.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a BigInt object, e.g. created by
`Object(BigInt(123))`.

    
    
    util.types.isBigIntObject(Object(BigInt(123)));   // Returns true
    util.types.isBigIntObject(BigInt(123));   // Returns false
    util.types.isBigIntObject(123);  // Returns false copy

#### `util.types.isBigUint64Array(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a `BigUint64Array` instance.

    
    
    util.types.isBigUint64Array(new BigInt64Array());   // Returns false
    util.types.isBigUint64Array(new BigUint64Array());  // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isBooleanObject(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a boolean object, e.g. created by `new
Boolean()`.

    
    
    util.types.isBooleanObject(false);  // Returns false
    util.types.isBooleanObject(true);   // Returns false
    util.types.isBooleanObject(new Boolean(false)); // Returns true
    util.types.isBooleanObject(new Boolean(true));  // Returns true
    util.types.isBooleanObject(Boolean(false)); // Returns false
    util.types.isBooleanObject(Boolean(true));  // Returns false copy

#### `util.types.isBoxedPrimitive(value)`#

Added in: v10.11.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is any boxed primitive object, e.g. created by
`new Boolean()`, `new String()` or `Object(Symbol())`.

For example:

    
    
    util.types.isBoxedPrimitive(false); // Returns false
    util.types.isBoxedPrimitive(new Boolean(false)); // Returns true
    util.types.isBoxedPrimitive(Symbol('foo')); // Returns false
    util.types.isBoxedPrimitive(Object(Symbol('foo'))); // Returns true
    util.types.isBoxedPrimitive(Object(BigInt(5))); // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isCryptoKey(value)`#

Added in: v16.2.0

  * `value` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if `value` is a <CryptoKey>, `false` otherwise.

#### `util.types.isDataView(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) instance.

    
    
    const ab = new ArrayBuffer(20);
    util.types.isDataView(new DataView(ab));  // Returns true
    util.types.isDataView(new Float64Array());  // Returns false copy

See also [`ArrayBuffer.isView()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer/isView).

#### `util.types.isDate(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<Date>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date) instance.

    
    
    util.types.isDate(new Date());  // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isExternal(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a native `External` value.

A native `External` value is a special type of object that contains a raw C++
pointer (`void*`) for access from native code, and has no other properties.
Such objects are created either by Node.js internals or native addons. In
JavaScript, they are [frozen](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/freeze) objects with a
`null` prototype.

    
    
    #include <js_native_api.h>
    #include <stdlib.h>
    napi_value result;
    static napi_value MyNapi(napi_env env, napi_callback_info info) {
      int* raw = (int*) malloc(1024);
      napi_status status = napi_create_external(env, (void*) raw, NULL, NULL, &result);
      if (status != napi_ok) {
        napi_throw_error(env, NULL, "napi_create_external failed");
        return NULL;
      }
      return result;
    }
    ...
    DECLARE_NAPI_PROPERTY("myNapi", MyNapi)
    ... copy
    
    
    import native from 'napi_addon.node';
    import { types } from 'node:util';
    
    const data = native.myNapi();
    types.isExternal(data); // returns true
    types.isExternal(0); // returns false
    types.isExternal(new String('foo')); // returns falseconst native = require('napi_addon.node');
    const { types } = require('node:util');
    
    const data = native.myNapi();
    types.isExternal(data); // returns true
    types.isExternal(0); // returns false
    types.isExternal(new String('foo')); // returns falsecopy

For further information on `napi_create_external`, refer to
`napi_create_external()`.

#### `util.types.isFloat32Array(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<Float32Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Float32Array) instance.

    
    
    util.types.isFloat32Array(new ArrayBuffer());  // Returns false
    util.types.isFloat32Array(new Float32Array());  // Returns true
    util.types.isFloat32Array(new Float64Array());  // Returns false copy

#### `util.types.isFloat64Array(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<Float64Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Float64Array) instance.

    
    
    util.types.isFloat64Array(new ArrayBuffer());  // Returns false
    util.types.isFloat64Array(new Uint8Array());  // Returns false
    util.types.isFloat64Array(new Float64Array());  // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isGeneratorFunction(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a generator function. This only reports back
what the JavaScript engine is seeing; in particular, the return value may not
match the original source code if a transpilation tool was used.

    
    
    util.types.isGeneratorFunction(function foo() {});  // Returns false
    util.types.isGeneratorFunction(function* foo() {});  // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isGeneratorObject(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a generator object as returned from a built-in
generator function. This only reports back what the JavaScript engine is
seeing; in particular, the return value may not match the original source code
if a transpilation tool was used.

    
    
    function* foo() {}
    const generator = foo();
    util.types.isGeneratorObject(generator);  // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isInt8Array(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<Int8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Int8Array) instance.

    
    
    util.types.isInt8Array(new ArrayBuffer());  // Returns false
    util.types.isInt8Array(new Int8Array());  // Returns true
    util.types.isInt8Array(new Float64Array());  // Returns false copy

#### `util.types.isInt16Array(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<Int16Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Int16Array) instance.

    
    
    util.types.isInt16Array(new ArrayBuffer());  // Returns false
    util.types.isInt16Array(new Int16Array());  // Returns true
    util.types.isInt16Array(new Float64Array());  // Returns false copy

#### `util.types.isInt32Array(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<Int32Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Int32Array) instance.

    
    
    util.types.isInt32Array(new ArrayBuffer());  // Returns false
    util.types.isInt32Array(new Int32Array());  // Returns true
    util.types.isInt32Array(new Float64Array());  // Returns false copy

#### `util.types.isKeyObject(value)`#

Added in: v16.2.0

  * `value` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if `value` is a <KeyObject>, `false` otherwise.

#### `util.types.isMap(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<Map>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map) instance.

    
    
    util.types.isMap(new Map());  // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isMapIterator(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is an iterator returned for a built-in
[<Map>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map) instance.

    
    
    const map = new Map();
    util.types.isMapIterator(map.keys());  // Returns true
    util.types.isMapIterator(map.values());  // Returns true
    util.types.isMapIterator(map.entries());  // Returns true
    util.types.isMapIterator(map[Symbol.iterator]());  // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isModuleNamespaceObject(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is an instance of a [Module Namespace
Object](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-module-namespace-exotic-objects).

    
    
    import * as ns from './a.js';
    
    util.types.isModuleNamespaceObject(ns);  // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isNativeError(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value was returned by the constructor of a [built-in
`Error` type](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-error-objects).

    
    
    console.log(util.types.isNativeError(new Error()));  // true
    console.log(util.types.isNativeError(new TypeError()));  // true
    console.log(util.types.isNativeError(new RangeError()));  // true copy

Subclasses of the native error types are also native errors:

    
    
    class MyError extends Error {}
    console.log(util.types.isNativeError(new MyError()));  // true copy

A value being `instanceof` a native error class is not equivalent to
`isNativeError()` returning `true` for that value. `isNativeError()` returns
`true` for errors which come from a different
[realm](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#realm) while `instanceof Error` returns
`false` for these errors:

    
    
    import { createContext, runInContext } from 'node:vm';
    import { types } from 'node:util';
    
    const context = createContext({});
    const myError = runInContext('new Error()', context);
    console.log(types.isNativeError(myError)); // true
    console.log(myError instanceof Error); // falseconst { createContext, runInContext } = require('node:vm');
    const { types } = require('node:util');
    
    const context = createContext({});
    const myError = runInContext('new Error()', context);
    console.log(types.isNativeError(myError)); // true
    console.log(myError instanceof Error); // falsecopy

Conversely, `isNativeError()` returns `false` for all objects which were not
returned by the constructor of a native error. That includes values which are
`instanceof` native errors:

    
    
    const myError = { __proto__: Error.prototype };
    console.log(util.types.isNativeError(myError)); // false
    console.log(myError instanceof Error); // true copy

#### `util.types.isNumberObject(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a number object, e.g. created by `new
Number()`.

    
    
    util.types.isNumberObject(0);  // Returns false
    util.types.isNumberObject(new Number(0));   // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isPromise(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise).

    
    
    util.types.isPromise(Promise.resolve(42));  // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isProxy(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a [<Proxy>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Proxy) instance.

    
    
    const target = {};
    const proxy = new Proxy(target, {});
    util.types.isProxy(target);  // Returns false
    util.types.isProxy(proxy);  // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isRegExp(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a regular expression object.

    
    
    util.types.isRegExp(/abc/);  // Returns true
    util.types.isRegExp(new RegExp('abc'));  // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isSet(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<Set>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set) instance.

    
    
    util.types.isSet(new Set());  // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isSetIterator(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is an iterator returned for a built-in
[<Set>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Set) instance.

    
    
    const set = new Set();
    util.types.isSetIterator(set.keys());  // Returns true
    util.types.isSetIterator(set.values());  // Returns true
    util.types.isSetIterator(set.entries());  // Returns true
    util.types.isSetIterator(set[Symbol.iterator]());  // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isSharedArrayBuffer(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer) instance.
This does _not_ include [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) instances.
Usually, it is desirable to test for both; See `util.types.isAnyArrayBuffer()`
for that.

    
    
    util.types.isSharedArrayBuffer(new ArrayBuffer());  // Returns false
    util.types.isSharedArrayBuffer(new SharedArrayBuffer());  // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isStringObject(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a string object, e.g. created by `new
String()`.

    
    
    util.types.isStringObject('foo');  // Returns false
    util.types.isStringObject(new String('foo'));   // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isSymbolObject(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a symbol object, created by calling `Object()`
on a `Symbol` primitive.

    
    
    const symbol = Symbol('foo');
    util.types.isSymbolObject(symbol);  // Returns false
    util.types.isSymbolObject(Object(symbol));   // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isTypedArray(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) instance.

    
    
    util.types.isTypedArray(new ArrayBuffer());  // Returns false
    util.types.isTypedArray(new Uint8Array());  // Returns true
    util.types.isTypedArray(new Float64Array());  // Returns true copy

See also [`ArrayBuffer.isView()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer/isView).

#### `util.types.isUint8Array(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) instance.

    
    
    util.types.isUint8Array(new ArrayBuffer());  // Returns false
    util.types.isUint8Array(new Uint8Array());  // Returns true
    util.types.isUint8Array(new Float64Array());  // Returns false copy

#### `util.types.isUint8ClampedArray(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<Uint8ClampedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8ClampedArray) instance.

    
    
    util.types.isUint8ClampedArray(new ArrayBuffer());  // Returns false
    util.types.isUint8ClampedArray(new Uint8ClampedArray());  // Returns true
    util.types.isUint8ClampedArray(new Float64Array());  // Returns false copy

#### `util.types.isUint16Array(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<Uint16Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint16Array) instance.

    
    
    util.types.isUint16Array(new ArrayBuffer());  // Returns false
    util.types.isUint16Array(new Uint16Array());  // Returns true
    util.types.isUint16Array(new Float64Array());  // Returns false copy

#### `util.types.isUint32Array(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<Uint32Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint32Array) instance.

    
    
    util.types.isUint32Array(new ArrayBuffer());  // Returns false
    util.types.isUint32Array(new Uint32Array());  // Returns true
    util.types.isUint32Array(new Float64Array());  // Returns false copy

#### `util.types.isWeakMap(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<WeakMap>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakMap) instance.

    
    
    util.types.isWeakMap(new WeakMap());  // Returns true copy

#### `util.types.isWeakSet(value)`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the value is a built-in
[<WeakSet>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WeakSet) instance.

    
    
    util.types.isWeakSet(new WeakSet());  // Returns true copy

### Deprecated APIs#

The following APIs are deprecated and should no longer be used. Existing
applications and modules should be updated to find alternative approaches.

#### `util._extend(target, source)`#

Added in: v0.7.5Deprecated since: v6.0.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use
[`Object.assign()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/assign) instead.

  * `target` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * `source` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The `util._extend()` method was never intended to be used outside of internal
Node.js modules. The community found and used it anyway.

It is deprecated and should not be used in new code. JavaScript comes with
very similar built-in functionality through
[`Object.assign()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object/assign).

#### `util.isArray(object)`#

Added in: v0.6.0Deprecated since: v4.0.0

Stability: 0 \- Deprecated: Use
[`Array.isArray()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/isArray) instead.

  * `object` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Alias for [`Array.isArray()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/isArray).

Returns `true` if the given `object` is an `Array`. Otherwise, returns
`false`.

    
    
    const util = require('node:util');
    
    util.isArray([]);
    // Returns: true
    util.isArray(new Array());
    // Returns: true
    util.isArray({});
    // Returns: false copy

## V8#

**Source Code:**
[lib/v8.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/v8.js)

The `node:v8` module exposes APIs that are specific to the version of
[V8](https://developers.google.com/v8/) built into the Node.js binary. It can
be accessed using:

    
    
    const v8 = require('node:v8'); copy

### `v8.cachedDataVersionTag()`#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns an integer representing a version tag derived from the V8 version,
command-line flags, and detected CPU features. This is useful for determining
whether a `vm.Script` `cachedData` buffer is compatible with this instance of
V8.

    
    
    console.log(v8.cachedDataVersionTag()); // 3947234607
    // The value returned by v8.cachedDataVersionTag() is derived from the V8
    // version, command-line flags, and detected CPU features. Test that the value
    // does indeed update when flags are toggled.
    v8.setFlagsFromString('--allow_natives_syntax');
    console.log(v8.cachedDataVersionTag()); // 183726201 copy

### `v8.getHeapCodeStatistics()`#

Added in: v12.8.0

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Get statistics about code and its metadata in the heap, see V8
[`GetHeapCodeAndMetadataStatistics`](https://v8docs.nodesource.com/node-13.2/d5/dda/classv8_1_1_isolate.html#a6079122af17612ef54ef3348ce170866)
API. Returns an object with the following properties:

  * `code_and_metadata_size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `bytecode_and_metadata_size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `external_script_source_size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `cpu_profiler_metadata_size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

    
    
    {
      code_and_metadata_size: 212208,
      bytecode_and_metadata_size: 161368,
      external_script_source_size: 1410794,
      cpu_profiler_metadata_size: 0,
    } copy

### `v8.getHeapSnapshot([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.1.0 | Support options to configure the heap snapshot.  
v11.13.0 | Added in: v11.13.0  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

    * `exposeInternals` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If true, expose internals in the heap snapshot. **Default:** `false`.
    * `exposeNumericValues` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If true, expose numeric values in artificial fields. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: <stream.Readable> A Readable containing the V8 heap snapshot.

Generates a snapshot of the current V8 heap and returns a Readable Stream that
may be used to read the JSON serialized representation. This JSON stream
format is intended to be used with tools such as Chrome DevTools. The JSON
schema is undocumented and specific to the V8 engine. Therefore, the schema
may change from one version of V8 to the next.

Creating a heap snapshot requires memory about twice the size of the heap at
the time the snapshot is created. This results in the risk of OOM killers
terminating the process.

Generating a snapshot is a synchronous operation which blocks the event loop
for a duration depending on the heap size.

    
    
    // Print heap snapshot to the console
    const v8 = require('node:v8');
    const stream = v8.getHeapSnapshot();
    stream.pipe(process.stdout); copy

### `v8.getHeapSpaceStatistics()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v7.5.0 | Support values exceeding the 32-bit unsigned integer range.  
v6.0.0 | Added in: v6.0.0  
  
  * Returns: [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns statistics about the V8 heap spaces, i.e. the segments which make up
the V8 heap. Neither the ordering of heap spaces, nor the availability of a
heap space can be guaranteed as the statistics are provided via the V8
[`GetHeapSpaceStatistics`](https://v8docs.nodesource.com/node-13.2/d5/dda/classv8_1_1_isolate.html#ac673576f24fdc7a33378f8f57e1d13a4)
function and may change from one V8 version to the next.

The value returned is an array of objects containing the following properties:

  * `space_name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `space_size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `space_used_size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `space_available_size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `physical_space_size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

    
    
    [
      {
        "space_name": "new_space",
        "space_size": 2063872,
        "space_used_size": 951112,
        "space_available_size": 80824,
        "physical_space_size": 2063872
      },
      {
        "space_name": "old_space",
        "space_size": 3090560,
        "space_used_size": 2493792,
        "space_available_size": 0,
        "physical_space_size": 3090560
      },
      {
        "space_name": "code_space",
        "space_size": 1260160,
        "space_used_size": 644256,
        "space_available_size": 960,
        "physical_space_size": 1260160
      },
      {
        "space_name": "map_space",
        "space_size": 1094160,
        "space_used_size": 201608,
        "space_available_size": 0,
        "physical_space_size": 1094160
      },
      {
        "space_name": "large_object_space",
        "space_size": 0,
        "space_used_size": 0,
        "space_available_size": 1490980608,
        "physical_space_size": 0
      }
    ] copy

### `v8.getHeapStatistics()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v7.5.0 | Support values exceeding the 32-bit unsigned integer range.  
v7.2.0 | Added `malloced_memory`, `peak_malloced_memory`, and `does_zap_garbage`.  
v1.0.0 | Added in: v1.0.0  
  
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns an object with the following properties:

  * `total_heap_size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `total_heap_size_executable` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `total_physical_size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `total_available_size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `used_heap_size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `heap_size_limit` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `malloced_memory` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `peak_malloced_memory` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `does_zap_garbage` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `number_of_native_contexts` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `number_of_detached_contexts` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `total_global_handles_size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `used_global_handles_size` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `external_memory` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

`total_heap_size` The value of total_heap_size is the number of bytes V8 has
allocated for the heap. This can grow if used_heap needs more memory.

`total_heap_size_executable` The value of total_heap_size_executable is the
portion of the heap that can contain executable code, in bytes. This includes
memory used by JIT-compiled code and any memory that must be kept executable.

`total_physical_size` The value of total_physical_size is the actual physical
memory used by the V8 heap, in bytes. This is the amount of memory that is
committed (or in use) rather than reserved.

`total_available_size` The value of total_available_size is the number of
bytes of memory available to the V8 heap. This value represents how much more
memory V8 can use before it exceeds the heap limit.

`used_heap_size` The value of used_heap_size is number of bytes currently
being used by V8’s JavaScript objects. This is the actual memory in use and
does not include memory that has been allocated but not yet used.

`heap_size_limit` The value of heap_size_limit is the maximum size of the V8
heap, in bytes (either the default limit, determined by system resources, or
the value passed to the `--max_old_space_size` option).

`malloced_memory` The value of malloced_memory is the number of bytes
allocated through `malloc` by V8.

`peak_malloced_memory` The value of peak_malloced_memory is the peak number of
bytes allocated through `malloc` by V8 during the lifetime of the process.

`does_zap_garbage` is a 0/1 boolean, which signifies whether the
`--zap_code_space` option is enabled or not. This makes V8 overwrite heap
garbage with a bit pattern. The RSS footprint (resident set size) gets bigger
because it continuously touches all heap pages and that makes them less likely
to get swapped out by the operating system.

`number_of_native_contexts` The value of native_context is the number of the
top-level contexts currently active. Increase of this number over time
indicates a memory leak.

`number_of_detached_contexts` The value of detached_context is the number of
contexts that were detached and not yet garbage collected. This number being
non-zero indicates a potential memory leak.

`total_global_handles_size` The value of total_global_handles_size is the
total memory size of V8 global handles.

`used_global_handles_size` The value of used_global_handles_size is the used
memory size of V8 global handles.

`external_memory` The value of external_memory is the memory size of array
buffers and external strings.

    
    
    {
      total_heap_size: 7326976,
      total_heap_size_executable: 4194304,
      total_physical_size: 7326976,
      total_available_size: 1152656,
      used_heap_size: 3476208,
      heap_size_limit: 1535115264,
      malloced_memory: 16384,
      peak_malloced_memory: 1127496,
      does_zap_garbage: 0,
      number_of_native_contexts: 1,
      number_of_detached_contexts: 0,
      total_global_handles_size: 8192,
      used_global_handles_size: 3296,
      external_memory: 318824
    } copy

### `v8.getCppHeapStatistics([detailLevel])`#

Retrieves
[CppHeap](https://v8docs.nodesource.com/node-22.4/d9/dc4/classv8_1_1_cpp_heap.html)
statistics regarding memory consumption and utilization using the V8
[`CollectStatistics()`](https://v8docs.nodesource.com/node-22.4/d9/dc4/classv8_1_1_cpp_heap.html#a3a5d09567758e608fffde50eeabc2feb)
function which may change from one V8 version to the next.

  * `detailLevel` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type): **Default:** `'detailed'`. Specifies the level of detail in the returned statistics. Accepted values are: 
    * `'brief'`: Brief statistics contain only the top-level allocated and used memory statistics for the entire heap.
    * `'detailed'`: Detailed statistics also contain a break down per space and page, as well as freelist statistics and object type histograms.

It returns an object with a structure similar to the
[`cppgc::HeapStatistics`](https://v8docs.nodesource.com/node-22.4/d7/d51/heap-
statistics_8h_source.html) object. See the [V8
documentation](https://v8docs.nodesource.com/node-22.4/df/d2f/structcppgc_1_1_heap_statistics.html)
for more information about the properties of the object.

    
    
    // Detailed
    ({
      committed_size_bytes: 131072,
      resident_size_bytes: 131072,
      used_size_bytes: 152,
      space_statistics: [
        {
          name: 'NormalPageSpace0',
          committed_size_bytes: 0,
          resident_size_bytes: 0,
          used_size_bytes: 0,
          page_stats: [{}],
          free_list_stats: {},
        },
        {
          name: 'NormalPageSpace1',
          committed_size_bytes: 131072,
          resident_size_bytes: 131072,
          used_size_bytes: 152,
          page_stats: [{}],
          free_list_stats: {},
        },
        {
          name: 'NormalPageSpace2',
          committed_size_bytes: 0,
          resident_size_bytes: 0,
          used_size_bytes: 0,
          page_stats: [{}],
          free_list_stats: {},
        },
        {
          name: 'NormalPageSpace3',
          committed_size_bytes: 0,
          resident_size_bytes: 0,
          used_size_bytes: 0,
          page_stats: [{}],
          free_list_stats: {},
        },
        {
          name: 'LargePageSpace',
          committed_size_bytes: 0,
          resident_size_bytes: 0,
          used_size_bytes: 0,
          page_stats: [{}],
          free_list_stats: {},
        },
      ],
      type_names: [],
      detail_level: 'detailed',
    }); copy
    
    
    // Brief
    ({
      committed_size_bytes: 131072,
      resident_size_bytes: 131072,
      used_size_bytes: 128864,
      space_statistics: [],
      type_names: [],
      detail_level: 'brief',
    }); copy

### `v8.queryObjects(ctor[, options])`#

Added in: v22.0.0, v20.13.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

  * `ctor` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The constructor that can be used to search on the prototype chain in order to filter target objects in the heap.
  * `options` [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `format` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If it's `'count'`, the count of matched objects is returned. If it's `'summary'`, an array with summary strings of the matched objects is returned.
  * Returns: {number|Array}

This is similar to the [`queryObjects()` console
API](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/console/utilities#queryObjects-
function) provided by the Chromium DevTools console. It can be used to search
for objects that have the matching constructor on its prototype chain in the
heap after a full garbage collection, which can be useful for memory leak
regression tests. To avoid surprising results, users should avoid using this
API on constructors whose implementation they don't control, or on
constructors that can be invoked by other parties in the application.

To avoid accidental leaks, this API does not return raw references to the
objects found. By default, it returns the count of the objects found. If
`options.format` is `'summary'`, it returns an array containing brief string
representations for each object. The visibility provided in this API is
similar to what the heap snapshot provides, while users can save the cost of
serialization and parsing and directly filter the target objects during the
search.

Only objects created in the current execution context are included in the
results.

    
    
    const { queryObjects } = require('node:v8');
    class A { foo = 'bar'; }
    console.log(queryObjects(A)); // 0
    const a = new A();
    console.log(queryObjects(A)); // 1
    // [ "A { foo: 'bar' }" ]
    console.log(queryObjects(A, { format: 'summary' }));
    
    class B extends A { bar = 'qux'; }
    const b = new B();
    console.log(queryObjects(B)); // 1
    // [ "B { foo: 'bar', bar: 'qux' }" ]
    console.log(queryObjects(B, { format: 'summary' }));
    
    // Note that, when there are child classes inheriting from a constructor,
    // the constructor also shows up in the prototype chain of the child
    // classes's prototype, so the child classes's prototype would also be
    // included in the result.
    console.log(queryObjects(A));  // 3
    // [ "B { foo: 'bar', bar: 'qux' }", 'A {}', "A { foo: 'bar' }" ]
    console.log(queryObjects(A, { format: 'summary' }));import { queryObjects } from 'node:v8';
    class A { foo = 'bar'; }
    console.log(queryObjects(A)); // 0
    const a = new A();
    console.log(queryObjects(A)); // 1
    // [ "A { foo: 'bar' }" ]
    console.log(queryObjects(A, { format: 'summary' }));
    
    class B extends A { bar = 'qux'; }
    const b = new B();
    console.log(queryObjects(B)); // 1
    // [ "B { foo: 'bar', bar: 'qux' }" ]
    console.log(queryObjects(B, { format: 'summary' }));
    
    // Note that, when there are child classes inheriting from a constructor,
    // the constructor also shows up in the prototype chain of the child
    // classes's prototype, so the child classes's prototype would also be
    // included in the result.
    console.log(queryObjects(A));  // 3
    // [ "B { foo: 'bar', bar: 'qux' }", 'A {}', "A { foo: 'bar' }" ]
    console.log(queryObjects(A, { format: 'summary' }));copy

### `v8.setFlagsFromString(flags)`#

Added in: v1.0.0

  * `flags` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The `v8.setFlagsFromString()` method can be used to programmatically set V8
command-line flags. This method should be used with care. Changing settings
after the VM has started may result in unpredictable behavior, including
crashes and data loss; or it may simply do nothing.

The V8 options available for a version of Node.js may be determined by running
`node --v8-options`.

Usage:

    
    
    // Print GC events to stdout for one minute.
    const v8 = require('node:v8');
    v8.setFlagsFromString('--trace_gc');
    setTimeout(() => { v8.setFlagsFromString('--notrace_gc'); }, 60e3); copy

### `v8.stopCoverage()`#

Added in: v15.1.0, v14.18.0, v12.22.0

The `v8.stopCoverage()` method allows the user to stop the coverage collection
started by `NODE_V8_COVERAGE`, so that V8 can release the execution count
records and optimize code. This can be used in conjunction with
`v8.takeCoverage()` if the user wants to collect the coverage on demand.

### `v8.takeCoverage()`#

Added in: v15.1.0, v14.18.0, v12.22.0

The `v8.takeCoverage()` method allows the user to write the coverage started
by `NODE_V8_COVERAGE` to disk on demand. This method can be invoked multiple
times during the lifetime of the process. Each time the execution counter will
be reset and a new coverage report will be written to the directory specified
by `NODE_V8_COVERAGE`.

When the process is about to exit, one last coverage will still be written to
disk unless `v8.stopCoverage()` is invoked before the process exits.

### `v8.writeHeapSnapshot([filename[,options]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.1.0 | Support options to configure the heap snapshot.  
v18.0.0 | An exception will now be thrown if the file could not be written.  
v18.0.0 | Make the returned error codes consistent across all platforms.  
v11.13.0 | Added in: v11.13.0  
  
  * `filename` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The file path where the V8 heap snapshot is to be saved. If not specified, a file name with the pattern `'Heap-${yyyymmdd}-${hhmmss}-${pid}-${thread_id}.heapsnapshot'` will be generated, where `{pid}` will be the PID of the Node.js process, `{thread_id}` will be `0` when `writeHeapSnapshot()` is called from the main Node.js thread or the id of a worker thread.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `exposeInternals` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If true, expose internals in the heap snapshot. **Default:** `false`.
    * `exposeNumericValues` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If true, expose numeric values in artificial fields. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The filename where the snapshot was saved.

Generates a snapshot of the current V8 heap and writes it to a JSON file. This
file is intended to be used with tools such as Chrome DevTools. The JSON
schema is undocumented and specific to the V8 engine, and may change from one
version of V8 to the next.

A heap snapshot is specific to a single V8 isolate. When using [worker
threads](worker_threads.html), a heap snapshot generated from the main thread
will not contain any information about the workers, and vice versa.

Creating a heap snapshot requires memory about twice the size of the heap at
the time the snapshot is created. This results in the risk of OOM killers
terminating the process.

Generating a snapshot is a synchronous operation which blocks the event loop
for a duration depending on the heap size.

    
    
    const { writeHeapSnapshot } = require('node:v8');
    const {
      Worker,
      isMainThread,
      parentPort,
    } = require('node:worker_threads');
    
    if (isMainThread) {
      const worker = new Worker(__filename);
    
      worker.once('message', (filename) => {
        console.log(`worker heapdump: ${filename}`);
        // Now get a heapdump for the main thread.
        console.log(`main thread heapdump: ${writeHeapSnapshot()}`);
      });
    
      // Tell the worker to create a heapdump.
      worker.postMessage('heapdump');
    } else {
      parentPort.once('message', (message) => {
        if (message === 'heapdump') {
          // Generate a heapdump for the worker
          // and return the filename to the parent.
          parentPort.postMessage(writeHeapSnapshot());
        }
      });
    } copy

### `v8.setHeapSnapshotNearHeapLimit(limit)`#

Added in: v18.10.0, v16.18.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * `limit` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The API is a no-op if `--heapsnapshot-near-heap-limit` is already set from the
command line or the API is called more than once. `limit` must be a positive
integer. See `--heapsnapshot-near-heap-limit` for more information.

### Serialization API#

The serialization API provides means of serializing JavaScript values in a way
that is compatible with the [HTML structured clone
algorithm](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm).

The format is backward-compatible (i.e. safe to store to disk). Equal
JavaScript values may result in different serialized output.

#### `v8.serialize(value)`#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: <Buffer>

Uses a `DefaultSerializer` to serialize `value` into a buffer.

`ERR_BUFFER_TOO_LARGE` will be thrown when trying to serialize a huge object
which requires buffer larger than `buffer.constants.MAX_LENGTH`.

#### `v8.deserialize(buffer)`#

Added in: v8.0.0

  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) A buffer returned by `serialize()`.

Uses a `DefaultDeserializer` with default options to read a JS value from a
buffer.

#### Class: `v8.Serializer`#

Added in: v8.0.0

##### `new Serializer()`#

Creates a new `Serializer` object.

##### `serializer.writeHeader()`#

Writes out a header, which includes the serialization format version.

##### `serializer.writeValue(value)`#

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Serializes a JavaScript value and adds the serialized representation to the
internal buffer.

This throws an error if `value` cannot be serialized.

##### `serializer.releaseBuffer()`#

  * Returns: <Buffer>

Returns the stored internal buffer. This serializer should not be used once
the buffer is released. Calling this method results in undefined behavior if a
previous write has failed.

##### `serializer.transferArrayBuffer(id, arrayBuffer)`#

  * `id` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A 32-bit unsigned integer.
  * `arrayBuffer` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) An `ArrayBuffer` instance.

Marks an `ArrayBuffer` as having its contents transferred out of band. Pass
the corresponding `ArrayBuffer` in the deserializing context to
`deserializer.transferArrayBuffer()`.

##### `serializer.writeUint32(value)`#

  * `value` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Write a raw 32-bit unsigned integer. For use inside of a custom
`serializer._writeHostObject()`.

##### `serializer.writeUint64(hi, lo)`#

  * `hi` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `lo` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Write a raw 64-bit unsigned integer, split into high and low 32-bit parts. For
use inside of a custom `serializer._writeHostObject()`.

##### `serializer.writeDouble(value)`#

  * `value` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Write a JS `number` value. For use inside of a custom
`serializer._writeHostObject()`.

##### `serializer.writeRawBytes(buffer)`#

  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)

Write raw bytes into the serializer's internal buffer. The deserializer will
require a way to compute the length of the buffer. For use inside of a custom
`serializer._writeHostObject()`.

##### `serializer._writeHostObject(object)`#

  * `object` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

This method is called to write some kind of host object, i.e. an object
created by native C++ bindings. If it is not possible to serialize `object`, a
suitable exception should be thrown.

This method is not present on the `Serializer` class itself but can be
provided by subclasses.

##### `serializer._getDataCloneError(message)`#

  * `message` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

This method is called to generate error objects that will be thrown when an
object can not be cloned.

This method defaults to the `Error` constructor and can be overridden on
subclasses.

##### `serializer._getSharedArrayBufferId(sharedArrayBuffer)`#

  * `sharedArrayBuffer` [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer)

This method is called when the serializer is going to serialize a
`SharedArrayBuffer` object. It must return an unsigned 32-bit integer ID for
the object, using the same ID if this `SharedArrayBuffer` has already been
serialized. When deserializing, this ID will be passed to
`deserializer.transferArrayBuffer()`.

If the object cannot be serialized, an exception should be thrown.

This method is not present on the `Serializer` class itself but can be
provided by subclasses.

##### `serializer._setTreatArrayBufferViewsAsHostObjects(flag)`#

  * `flag` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) **Default:** `false`

Indicate whether to treat `TypedArray` and `DataView` objects as host objects,
i.e. pass them to `serializer._writeHostObject()`.

#### Class: `v8.Deserializer`#

Added in: v8.0.0

##### `new Deserializer(buffer)`#

  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) A buffer returned by `serializer.releaseBuffer()`.

Creates a new `Deserializer` object.

##### `deserializer.readHeader()`#

Reads and validates a header (including the format version). May, for example,
reject an invalid or unsupported wire format. In that case, an `Error` is
thrown.

##### `deserializer.readValue()`#

Deserializes a JavaScript value from the buffer and returns it.

##### `deserializer.transferArrayBuffer(id, arrayBuffer)`#

  * `id` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A 32-bit unsigned integer.
  * `arrayBuffer` [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer) An `ArrayBuffer` instance.

Marks an `ArrayBuffer` as having its contents transferred out of band. Pass
the corresponding `ArrayBuffer` in the serializing context to
`serializer.transferArrayBuffer()` (or return the `id` from
`serializer._getSharedArrayBufferId()` in the case of `SharedArrayBuffer`s).

##### `deserializer.getWireFormatVersion()`#

  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Reads the underlying wire format version. Likely mostly to be useful to legacy
code reading old wire format versions. May not be called before
`.readHeader()`.

##### `deserializer.readUint32()`#

  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Read a raw 32-bit unsigned integer and return it. For use inside of a custom
`deserializer._readHostObject()`.

##### `deserializer.readUint64()`#

  * Returns: [<integer[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Read a raw 64-bit unsigned integer and return it as an array `[hi, lo]` with
two 32-bit unsigned integer entries. For use inside of a custom
`deserializer._readHostObject()`.

##### `deserializer.readDouble()`#

  * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Read a JS `number` value. For use inside of a custom
`deserializer._readHostObject()`.

##### `deserializer.readRawBytes(length)`#

  * `length` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * Returns: <Buffer>

Read raw bytes from the deserializer's internal buffer. The `length` parameter
must correspond to the length of the buffer that was passed to
`serializer.writeRawBytes()`. For use inside of a custom
`deserializer._readHostObject()`.

##### `deserializer._readHostObject()`#

This method is called to read some kind of host object, i.e. an object that is
created by native C++ bindings. If it is not possible to deserialize the data,
a suitable exception should be thrown.

This method is not present on the `Deserializer` class itself but can be
provided by subclasses.

#### Class: `v8.DefaultSerializer`#

Added in: v8.0.0

A subclass of `Serializer` that serializes `TypedArray` (in particular
[`Buffer`](buffer.html)) and `DataView` objects as host objects, and only
stores the part of their underlying `ArrayBuffer`s that they are referring to.

#### Class: `v8.DefaultDeserializer`#

Added in: v8.0.0

A subclass of `Deserializer` corresponding to the format written by
`DefaultSerializer`.

### Promise hooks#

The `promiseHooks` interface can be used to track promise lifecycle events. To
track _all_ async activity, see [`async_hooks`](async_hooks.html) which
internally uses this module to produce promise lifecycle events in addition to
events for other async resources. For request context management, see
`AsyncLocalStorage`.

    
    
    import { promiseHooks } from 'node:v8';
    
    // There are four lifecycle events produced by promises:
    
    // The `init` event represents the creation of a promise. This could be a
    // direct creation such as with `new Promise(...)` or a continuation such
    // as `then()` or `catch()`. It also happens whenever an async function is
    // called or does an `await`. If a continuation promise is created, the
    // `parent` will be the promise it is a continuation from.
    function init(promise, parent) {
      console.log('a promise was created', { promise, parent });
    }
    
    // The `settled` event happens when a promise receives a resolution or
    // rejection value. This may happen synchronously such as when using
    // `Promise.resolve()` on non-promise input.
    function settled(promise) {
      console.log('a promise resolved or rejected', { promise });
    }
    
    // The `before` event runs immediately before a `then()` or `catch()` handler
    // runs or an `await` resumes execution.
    function before(promise) {
      console.log('a promise is about to call a then handler', { promise });
    }
    
    // The `after` event runs immediately after a `then()` handler runs or when
    // an `await` begins after resuming from another.
    function after(promise) {
      console.log('a promise is done calling a then handler', { promise });
    }
    
    // Lifecycle hooks may be started and stopped individually
    const stopWatchingInits = promiseHooks.onInit(init);
    const stopWatchingSettleds = promiseHooks.onSettled(settled);
    const stopWatchingBefores = promiseHooks.onBefore(before);
    const stopWatchingAfters = promiseHooks.onAfter(after);
    
    // Or they may be started and stopped in groups
    const stopHookSet = promiseHooks.createHook({
      init,
      settled,
      before,
      after,
    });
    
    // To stop a hook, call the function returned at its creation.
    stopWatchingInits();
    stopWatchingSettleds();
    stopWatchingBefores();
    stopWatchingAfters();
    stopHookSet(); copy

#### `promiseHooks.onInit(init)`#

Added in: v17.1.0, v16.14.0

  * `init` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `init` callback to call when a promise is created.
  * Returns: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Call to stop the hook.

**The`init` hook must be a plain function. Providing an async function will
throw as it would produce an infinite microtask loop.**

    
    
    import { promiseHooks } from 'node:v8';
    
    const stop = promiseHooks.onInit((promise, parent) => {});const { promiseHooks } = require('node:v8');
    
    const stop = promiseHooks.onInit((promise, parent) => {});copy

#### `promiseHooks.onSettled(settled)`#

Added in: v17.1.0, v16.14.0

  * `settled` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `settled` callback to call when a promise is resolved or rejected.
  * Returns: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Call to stop the hook.

**The`settled` hook must be a plain function. Providing an async function will
throw as it would produce an infinite microtask loop.**

    
    
    import { promiseHooks } from 'node:v8';
    
    const stop = promiseHooks.onSettled((promise) => {});const { promiseHooks } = require('node:v8');
    
    const stop = promiseHooks.onSettled((promise) => {});copy

#### `promiseHooks.onBefore(before)`#

Added in: v17.1.0, v16.14.0

  * `before` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `before` callback to call before a promise continuation executes.
  * Returns: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Call to stop the hook.

**The`before` hook must be a plain function. Providing an async function will
throw as it would produce an infinite microtask loop.**

    
    
    import { promiseHooks } from 'node:v8';
    
    const stop = promiseHooks.onBefore((promise) => {});const { promiseHooks } = require('node:v8');
    
    const stop = promiseHooks.onBefore((promise) => {});copy

#### `promiseHooks.onAfter(after)`#

Added in: v17.1.0, v16.14.0

  * `after` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `after` callback to call after a promise continuation executes.
  * Returns: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Call to stop the hook.

**The`after` hook must be a plain function. Providing an async function will
throw as it would produce an infinite microtask loop.**

    
    
    import { promiseHooks } from 'node:v8';
    
    const stop = promiseHooks.onAfter((promise) => {});const { promiseHooks } = require('node:v8');
    
    const stop = promiseHooks.onAfter((promise) => {});copy

#### `promiseHooks.createHook(callbacks)`#

Added in: v17.1.0, v16.14.0

  * `callbacks` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The Hook Callbacks to register 
    * `init` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `init` callback.
    * `before` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `before` callback.
    * `after` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `after` callback.
    * `settled` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) The `settled` callback.
  * Returns: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Used for disabling hooks

**The hook callbacks must be plain functions. Providing async functions will
throw as it would produce an infinite microtask loop.**

Registers functions to be called for different lifetime events of each
promise.

The callbacks `init()`/`before()`/`after()`/`settled()` are called for the
respective events during a promise's lifetime.

All callbacks are optional. For example, if only promise creation needs to be
tracked, then only the `init` callback needs to be passed. The specifics of
all functions that can be passed to `callbacks` is in the Hook Callbacks
section.

    
    
    import { promiseHooks } from 'node:v8';
    
    const stopAll = promiseHooks.createHook({
      init(promise, parent) {},
    });const { promiseHooks } = require('node:v8');
    
    const stopAll = promiseHooks.createHook({
      init(promise, parent) {},
    });copy

#### Hook callbacks#

Key events in the lifetime of a promise have been categorized into four areas:
creation of a promise, before/after a continuation handler is called or around
an await, and when the promise resolves or rejects.

While these hooks are similar to those of [`async_hooks`](async_hooks.html)
they lack a `destroy` hook. Other types of async resources typically represent
sockets or file descriptors which have a distinct "closed" state to express
the `destroy` lifecycle event while promises remain usable for as long as code
can still reach them. Garbage collection tracking is used to make promises fit
into the `async_hooks` event model, however this tracking is very expensive
and they may not necessarily ever even be garbage collected.

Because promises are asynchronous resources whose lifecycle is tracked via the
promise hooks mechanism, the `init()`, `before()`, `after()`, and `settled()`
callbacks _must not_ be async functions as they create more promises which
would produce an infinite loop.

While this API is used to feed promise events into
[`async_hooks`](async_hooks.html), the ordering between the two is undefined.
Both APIs are multi-tenant and therefore could produce events in any order
relative to each other.

##### `init(promise, parent)`#

  * `promise` [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) The promise being created.
  * `parent` [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) The promise continued from, if applicable.

Called when a promise is constructed. This _does not_ mean that corresponding
`before`/`after` events will occur, only that the possibility exists. This
will happen if a promise is created without ever getting a continuation.

##### `before(promise)`#

  * `promise` [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Called before a promise continuation executes. This can be in the form of
`then()`, `catch()`, or `finally()` handlers or an `await` resuming.

The `before` callback will be called 0 to N times. The `before` callback will
typically be called 0 times if no continuation was ever made for the promise.
The `before` callback may be called many times in the case where many
continuations have been made from the same promise.

##### `after(promise)`#

  * `promise` [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Called immediately after a promise continuation executes. This may be after a
`then()`, `catch()`, or `finally()` handler or before an `await` after another
`await`.

##### `settled(promise)`#

  * `promise` [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Called when the promise receives a resolution or rejection value. This may
occur synchronously in the case of `Promise.resolve()` or `Promise.reject()`.

### Startup Snapshot API#

Added in: v18.6.0, v16.17.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

The `v8.startupSnapshot` interface can be used to add serialization and
deserialization hooks for custom startup snapshots.

    
    
    $ node --snapshot-blob snapshot.blob --build-snapshot entry.js
    # This launches a process with the snapshot
    $ node --snapshot-blob snapshot.blob copy

In the example above, `entry.js` can use methods from the `v8.startupSnapshot`
interface to specify how to save information for custom objects in the
snapshot during serialization and how the information can be used to
synchronize these objects during deserialization of the snapshot. For example,
if the `entry.js` contains the following script:

    
    
    'use strict';
    
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const zlib = require('node:zlib');
    const path = require('node:path');
    const assert = require('node:assert');
    
    const v8 = require('node:v8');
    
    class BookShelf {
      storage = new Map();
    
      // Reading a series of files from directory and store them into storage.
      constructor(directory, books) {
        for (const book of books) {
          this.storage.set(book, fs.readFileSync(path.join(directory, book)));
        }
      }
    
      static compressAll(shelf) {
        for (const [ book, content ] of shelf.storage) {
          shelf.storage.set(book, zlib.gzipSync(content));
        }
      }
    
      static decompressAll(shelf) {
        for (const [ book, content ] of shelf.storage) {
          shelf.storage.set(book, zlib.gunzipSync(content));
        }
      }
    }
    
    // __dirname here is where the snapshot script is placed
    // during snapshot building time.
    const shelf = new BookShelf(__dirname, [
      'book1.en_US.txt',
      'book1.es_ES.txt',
      'book2.zh_CN.txt',
    ]);
    
    assert(v8.startupSnapshot.isBuildingSnapshot());
    // On snapshot serialization, compress the books to reduce size.
    v8.startupSnapshot.addSerializeCallback(BookShelf.compressAll, shelf);
    // On snapshot deserialization, decompress the books.
    v8.startupSnapshot.addDeserializeCallback(BookShelf.decompressAll, shelf);
    v8.startupSnapshot.setDeserializeMainFunction((shelf) => {
      // process.env and process.argv are refreshed during snapshot
      // deserialization.
      const lang = process.env.BOOK_LANG || 'en_US';
      const book = process.argv[1];
      const name = `${book}.${lang}.txt`;
      console.log(shelf.storage.get(name));
    }, shelf); copy

The resulted binary will get print the data deserialized from the snapshot
during start up, using the refreshed `process.env` and `process.argv` of the
launched process:

    
    
    $ BOOK_LANG=es_ES node --snapshot-blob snapshot.blob book1
    # Prints content of book1.es_ES.txt deserialized from the snapshot. copy

Currently the application deserialized from a user-land snapshot cannot be
snapshotted again, so these APIs are only available to applications that are
not deserialized from a user-land snapshot.

#### `v8.startupSnapshot.addSerializeCallback(callback[, data])`#

Added in: v18.6.0, v16.17.0

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Callback to be invoked before serialization.
  * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Optional data that will be passed to the `callback` when it gets called.

Add a callback that will be called when the Node.js instance is about to get
serialized into a snapshot and exit. This can be used to release resources
that should not or cannot be serialized or to convert user data into a form
more suitable for serialization.

Callbacks are run in the order in which they are added.

#### `v8.startupSnapshot.addDeserializeCallback(callback[, data])`#

Added in: v18.6.0, v16.17.0

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Callback to be invoked after the snapshot is deserialized.
  * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Optional data that will be passed to the `callback` when it gets called.

Add a callback that will be called when the Node.js instance is deserialized
from a snapshot. The `callback` and the `data` (if provided) will be
serialized into the snapshot, they can be used to re-initialize the state of
the application or to re-acquire resources that the application needs when the
application is restarted from the snapshot.

Callbacks are run in the order in which they are added.

#### `v8.startupSnapshot.setDeserializeMainFunction(callback[, data])`#

Added in: v18.6.0, v16.17.0

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Callback to be invoked as the entry point after the snapshot is deserialized.
  * `data` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Optional data that will be passed to the `callback` when it gets called.

This sets the entry point of the Node.js application when it is deserialized
from a snapshot. This can be called only once in the snapshot building script.
If called, the deserialized application no longer needs an additional entry
point script to start up and will simply invoke the callback along with the
deserialized data (if provided), otherwise an entry point script still needs
to be provided to the deserialized application.

#### `v8.startupSnapshot.isBuildingSnapshot()`#

Added in: v18.6.0, v16.17.0

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns true if the Node.js instance is run to build a snapshot.

### Class: `v8.GCProfiler`#

Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0

This API collects GC data in current thread.

#### `new v8.GCProfiler()`#

Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0

Create a new instance of the `v8.GCProfiler` class.

#### `profiler.start()`#

Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0

Start collecting GC data.

#### `profiler.stop()`#

Added in: v19.6.0, v18.15.0

Stop collecting GC data and return an object.The content of object is as
follows.

    
    
    {
      "version": 1,
      "startTime": 1674059033862,
      "statistics": [
        {
          "gcType": "Scavenge",
          "beforeGC": {
            "heapStatistics": {
              "totalHeapSize": 5005312,
              "totalHeapSizeExecutable": 524288,
              "totalPhysicalSize": 5226496,
              "totalAvailableSize": 4341325216,
              "totalGlobalHandlesSize": 8192,
              "usedGlobalHandlesSize": 2112,
              "usedHeapSize": 4883840,
              "heapSizeLimit": 4345298944,
              "mallocedMemory": 254128,
              "externalMemory": 225138,
              "peakMallocedMemory": 181760
            },
            "heapSpaceStatistics": [
              {
                "spaceName": "read_only_space",
                "spaceSize": 0,
                "spaceUsedSize": 0,
                "spaceAvailableSize": 0,
                "physicalSpaceSize": 0
              }
            ]
          },
          "cost": 1574.14,
          "afterGC": {
            "heapStatistics": {
              "totalHeapSize": 6053888,
              "totalHeapSizeExecutable": 524288,
              "totalPhysicalSize": 5500928,
              "totalAvailableSize": 4341101384,
              "totalGlobalHandlesSize": 8192,
              "usedGlobalHandlesSize": 2112,
              "usedHeapSize": 4059096,
              "heapSizeLimit": 4345298944,
              "mallocedMemory": 254128,
              "externalMemory": 225138,
              "peakMallocedMemory": 181760
            },
            "heapSpaceStatistics": [
              {
                "spaceName": "read_only_space",
                "spaceSize": 0,
                "spaceUsedSize": 0,
                "spaceAvailableSize": 0,
                "physicalSpaceSize": 0
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      ],
      "endTime": 1674059036865
    } copy

Here's an example.

    
    
    const { GCProfiler } = require('node:v8');
    const profiler = new GCProfiler();
    profiler.start();
    setTimeout(() => {
      console.log(profiler.stop());
    }, 1000); copy

### `v8.isStringOneByteRepresentation(content)`#

Added in: v23.10.0

  * `content` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

V8 only supports `Latin-1/ISO-8859-1` and `UTF16` as the underlying
representation of a string. If the `content` uses `Latin-1/ISO-8859-1` as the
underlying representation, this function will return true; otherwise, it
returns false.

If this method returns false, that does not mean that the string contains some
characters not in `Latin-1/ISO-8859-1`. Sometimes a `Latin-1` string may also
be represented as `UTF16`.

    
    
    const { isStringOneByteRepresentation } = require('node:v8');
    
    const Encoding = {
      latin1: 1,
      utf16le: 2,
    };
    const buffer = Buffer.alloc(100);
    function writeString(input) {
      if (isStringOneByteRepresentation(input)) {
        buffer.writeUint8(Encoding.latin1);
        buffer.writeUint32LE(input.length, 1);
        buffer.write(input, 5, 'latin1');
      } else {
        buffer.writeUint8(Encoding.utf16le);
        buffer.writeUint32LE(input.length * 2, 1);
        buffer.write(input, 5, 'utf16le');
      }
    }
    writeString('hello');
    writeString('你好'); copy

## VM (executing JavaScript)#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/vm.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/vm.js)

The `node:vm` module enables compiling and running code within V8 Virtual
Machine contexts.

**The`node:vm` module is not a security mechanism. Do not use it to run
untrusted code.**

JavaScript code can be compiled and run immediately or compiled, saved, and
run later.

A common use case is to run the code in a different V8 Context. This means
invoked code has a different global object than the invoking code.

One can provide the context by _contextifying_ an object. The invoked code
treats any property in the context like a global variable. Any changes to
global variables caused by the invoked code are reflected in the context
object.

    
    
    const vm = require('node:vm');
    
    const x = 1;
    
    const context = { x: 2 };
    vm.createContext(context); // Contextify the object.
    
    const code = 'x += 40; var y = 17;';
    // `x` and `y` are global variables in the context.
    // Initially, x has the value 2 because that is the value of context.x.
    vm.runInContext(code, context);
    
    console.log(context.x); // 42
    console.log(context.y); // 17
    
    console.log(x); // 1; y is not defined. copy

### Class: `vm.Script`#

Added in: v0.3.1

Instances of the `vm.Script` class contain precompiled scripts that can be
executed in specific contexts.

#### `new vm.Script(code[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.7.0, v20.12.0 | Added support for `vm.constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER`.  
v17.0.0, v16.12.0 | Added support for import attributes to the `importModuleDynamically` parameter.  
v10.6.0 | The `produceCachedData` is deprecated in favour of `script.createCachedData()`.  
v5.7.0 | The `cachedData` and `produceCachedData` options are supported now.  
v0.3.1 | Added in: v0.3.1  
  
  * `code` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The JavaScript code to compile.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `filename` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Specifies the filename used in stack traces produced by this script. **Default:** `'evalmachine.<anonymous>'`.
    * `lineOffset` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the line number offset that is displayed in stack traces produced by this script. **Default:** `0`.
    * `columnOffset` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the first-line column number offset that is displayed in stack traces produced by this script. **Default:** `0`.
    * `cachedData` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) Provides an optional `Buffer` or `TypedArray`, or `DataView` with V8's code cache data for the supplied source. When supplied, the `cachedDataRejected` value will be set to either `true` or `false` depending on acceptance of the data by V8.
    * `produceCachedData` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true` and no `cachedData` is present, V8 will attempt to produce code cache data for `code`. Upon success, a `Buffer` with V8's code cache data will be produced and stored in the `cachedData` property of the returned `vm.Script` instance. The `cachedDataProduced` value will be set to either `true` or `false` depending on whether code cache data is produced successfully. This option is **deprecated** in favor of `script.createCachedData()`. **Default:** `false`.
    * `importModuleDynamically` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <vm.constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER> Used to specify how the modules should be loaded during the evaluation of this script when `import()` is called. This option is part of the experimental modules API. We do not recommend using it in a production environment. For detailed information, see Support of dynamic `import()` in compilation APIs.

If `options` is a string, then it specifies the filename.

Creating a new `vm.Script` object compiles `code` but does not run it. The
compiled `vm.Script` can be run later multiple times. The `code` is not bound
to any global object; rather, it is bound before each run, just for that run.

#### `script.cachedDataRejected`#

Added in: v5.7.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

When `cachedData` is supplied to create the `vm.Script`, this value will be
set to either `true` or `false` depending on acceptance of the data by V8.
Otherwise the value is `undefined`.

#### `script.createCachedData()`#

Added in: v10.6.0

  * Returns: <Buffer>

Creates a code cache that can be used with the `Script` constructor's
`cachedData` option. Returns a `Buffer`. This method may be called at any time
and any number of times.

The code cache of the `Script` doesn't contain any JavaScript observable
states. The code cache is safe to be saved along side the script source and
used to construct new `Script` instances multiple times.

Functions in the `Script` source can be marked as lazily compiled and they are
not compiled at construction of the `Script`. These functions are going to be
compiled when they are invoked the first time. The code cache serializes the
metadata that V8 currently knows about the `Script` that it can use to speed
up future compilations.

    
    
    const script = new vm.Script(`
    function add(a, b) {
      return a + b;
    }
    
    const x = add(1, 2);
    `);
    
    const cacheWithoutAdd = script.createCachedData();
    // In `cacheWithoutAdd` the function `add()` is marked for full compilation
    // upon invocation.
    
    script.runInThisContext();
    
    const cacheWithAdd = script.createCachedData();
    // `cacheWithAdd` contains fully compiled function `add()`. copy

#### `script.runInContext(contextifiedObject[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.3.0 | The `breakOnSigint` option is supported now.  
v0.3.1 | Added in: v0.3.1  
  
  * `contextifiedObject` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) A contextified object as returned by the `vm.createContext()` method.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `displayErrors` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, if an `Error` occurs while compiling the `code`, the line of code causing the error is attached to the stack trace. **Default:** `true`.
    * `timeout` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the number of milliseconds to execute `code` before terminating execution. If execution is terminated, an `Error` will be thrown. This value must be a strictly positive integer.
    * `breakOnSigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, receiving `SIGINT` (`Ctrl`+`C`) will terminate execution and throw an `Error`. Existing handlers for the event that have been attached via `process.on('SIGINT')` are disabled during script execution, but continue to work after that. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) the result of the very last statement executed in the script.

Runs the compiled code contained by the `vm.Script` object within the given
`contextifiedObject` and returns the result. Running code does not have access
to local scope.

The following example compiles code that increments a global variable, sets
the value of another global variable, then execute the code multiple times.
The globals are contained in the `context` object.

    
    
    const vm = require('node:vm');
    
    const context = {
      animal: 'cat',
      count: 2,
    };
    
    const script = new vm.Script('count += 1; name = "kitty";');
    
    vm.createContext(context);
    for (let i = 0; i < 10; ++i) {
      script.runInContext(context);
    }
    
    console.log(context);
    // Prints: { animal: 'cat', count: 12, name: 'kitty' } copy

Using the `timeout` or `breakOnSigint` options will result in new event loops
and corresponding threads being started, which have a non-zero performance
overhead.

#### `script.runInNewContext([contextObject[, options]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.8.0, v20.18.0 | The `contextObject` argument now accepts `vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY`.  
v14.6.0 | The `microtaskMode` option is supported now.  
v10.0.0 | The `contextCodeGeneration` option is supported now.  
v6.3.0 | The `breakOnSigint` option is supported now.  
v0.3.1 | Added in: v0.3.1  
  
  * `contextObject` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | <vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY> | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Either `vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY` or an object that will be contextified. If `undefined`, an empty contextified object will be created for backwards compatibility.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `displayErrors` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, if an `Error` occurs while compiling the `code`, the line of code causing the error is attached to the stack trace. **Default:** `true`.
    * `timeout` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the number of milliseconds to execute `code` before terminating execution. If execution is terminated, an `Error` will be thrown. This value must be a strictly positive integer.
    * `breakOnSigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, receiving `SIGINT` (`Ctrl`+`C`) will terminate execution and throw an `Error`. Existing handlers for the event that have been attached via `process.on('SIGINT')` are disabled during script execution, but continue to work after that. **Default:** `false`.
    * `contextName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Human-readable name of the newly created context. **Default:** `'VM Context i'`, where `i` is an ascending numerical index of the created context.
    * `contextOrigin` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) [Origin](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Origin) corresponding to the newly created context for display purposes. The origin should be formatted like a URL, but with only the scheme, host, and port (if necessary), like the value of the `url.origin` property of a `URL` object. Most notably, this string should omit the trailing slash, as that denotes a path. **Default:** `''`.
    * `contextCodeGeneration` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
      * `strings` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to false any calls to `eval` or function constructors (`Function`, `GeneratorFunction`, etc) will throw an `EvalError`. **Default:** `true`.
      * `wasm` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to false any attempt to compile a WebAssembly module will throw a `WebAssembly.CompileError`. **Default:** `true`.
    * `microtaskMode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If set to `afterEvaluate`, microtasks (tasks scheduled through `Promise`s and `async function`s) will be run immediately after the script has run. They are included in the `timeout` and `breakOnSigint` scopes in that case.
  * Returns: [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) the result of the very last statement executed in the script.

This method is a shortcut to `script.runInContext(vm.createContext(options),
options)`. It does several things at once:

  1. Creates a new context.
  2. If `contextObject` is an object, contextifies it with the new context. If `contextObject` is undefined, creates a new object and contextifies it. If `contextObject` is `vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY`, don't contextify anything.
  3. Runs the compiled code contained by the `vm.Script` object within the created context. The code does not have access to the scope in which this method is called.
  4. Returns the result.

The following example compiles code that sets a global variable, then executes
the code multiple times in different contexts. The globals are set on and
contained within each individual `context`.

    
    
    const vm = require('node:vm');
    
    const script = new vm.Script('globalVar = "set"');
    
    const contexts = [{}, {}, {}];
    contexts.forEach((context) => {
      script.runInNewContext(context);
    });
    
    console.log(contexts);
    // Prints: [{ globalVar: 'set' }, { globalVar: 'set' }, { globalVar: 'set' }]
    
    // This would throw if the context is created from a contextified object.
    // vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY allows creating contexts with ordinary
    // global objects that can be frozen.
    const freezeScript = new vm.Script('Object.freeze(globalThis); globalThis;');
    const frozenContext = freezeScript.runInNewContext(vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY); copy

#### `script.runInThisContext([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.3.0 | The `breakOnSigint` option is supported now.  
v0.3.1 | Added in: v0.3.1  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `displayErrors` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, if an `Error` occurs while compiling the `code`, the line of code causing the error is attached to the stack trace. **Default:** `true`.
    * `timeout` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the number of milliseconds to execute `code` before terminating execution. If execution is terminated, an `Error` will be thrown. This value must be a strictly positive integer.
    * `breakOnSigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, receiving `SIGINT` (`Ctrl`+`C`) will terminate execution and throw an `Error`. Existing handlers for the event that have been attached via `process.on('SIGINT')` are disabled during script execution, but continue to work after that. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) the result of the very last statement executed in the script.

Runs the compiled code contained by the `vm.Script` within the context of the
current `global` object. Running code does not have access to local scope, but
_does_ have access to the current `global` object.

The following example compiles code that increments a `global` variable then
executes that code multiple times:

    
    
    const vm = require('node:vm');
    
    global.globalVar = 0;
    
    const script = new vm.Script('globalVar += 1', { filename: 'myfile.vm' });
    
    for (let i = 0; i < 1000; ++i) {
      script.runInThisContext();
    }
    
    console.log(globalVar);
    
    // 1000 copy

#### `script.sourceMapURL`#

Added in: v19.1.0, v18.13.0

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

When the script is compiled from a source that contains a source map magic
comment, this property will be set to the URL of the source map.

    
    
    import vm from 'node:vm';
    
    const script = new vm.Script(`
    function myFunc() {}
    //# sourceMappingURL=sourcemap.json
    `);
    
    console.log(script.sourceMapURL);
    // Prints: sourcemap.jsonconst vm = require('node:vm');
    
    const script = new vm.Script(`
    function myFunc() {}
    //# sourceMappingURL=sourcemap.json
    `);
    
    console.log(script.sourceMapURL);
    // Prints: sourcemap.jsoncopy

### Class: `vm.Module`#

Added in: v13.0.0, v12.16.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

This feature is only available with the `--experimental-vm-modules` command
flag enabled.

The `vm.Module` class provides a low-level interface for using ECMAScript
modules in VM contexts. It is the counterpart of the `vm.Script` class that
closely mirrors [Module Record](https://262.ecma-international.org/14.0/#sec-
abstract-module-records)s as defined in the ECMAScript specification.

Unlike `vm.Script` however, every `vm.Module` object is bound to a context
from its creation. Operations on `vm.Module` objects are intrinsically
asynchronous, in contrast with the synchronous nature of `vm.Script` objects.
The use of 'async' functions can help with manipulating `vm.Module` objects.

Using a `vm.Module` object requires three distinct steps: creation/parsing,
linking, and evaluation. These three steps are illustrated in the following
example.

This implementation lies at a lower level than the ECMAScript Module loader.
There is also no way to interact with the Loader yet, though support is
planned.

    
    
    import vm from 'node:vm';
    
    const contextifiedObject = vm.createContext({
      secret: 42,
      print: console.log,
    });
    
    // Step 1
    //
    // Create a Module by constructing a new `vm.SourceTextModule` object. This
    // parses the provided source text, throwing a `SyntaxError` if anything goes
    // wrong. By default, a Module is created in the top context. But here, we
    // specify `contextifiedObject` as the context this Module belongs to.
    //
    // Here, we attempt to obtain the default export from the module "foo", and
    // put it into local binding "secret".
    
    const bar = new vm.SourceTextModule(`
      import s from 'foo';
      s;
      print(s);
    `, { context: contextifiedObject });
    
    // Step 2
    //
    // "Link" the imported dependencies of this Module to it.
    //
    // The provided linking callback (the "linker") accepts two arguments: the
    // parent module (`bar` in this case) and the string that is the specifier of
    // the imported module. The callback is expected to return a Module that
    // corresponds to the provided specifier, with certain requirements documented
    // in `module.link()`.
    //
    // If linking has not started for the returned Module, the same linker
    // callback will be called on the returned Module.
    //
    // Even top-level Modules without dependencies must be explicitly linked. The
    // callback provided would never be called, however.
    //
    // The link() method returns a Promise that will be resolved when all the
    // Promises returned by the linker resolve.
    //
    // Note: This is a contrived example in that the linker function creates a new
    // "foo" module every time it is called. In a full-fledged module system, a
    // cache would probably be used to avoid duplicated modules.
    
    async function linker(specifier, referencingModule) {
      if (specifier === 'foo') {
        return new vm.SourceTextModule(`
          // The "secret" variable refers to the global variable we added to
          // "contextifiedObject" when creating the context.
          export default secret;
        `, { context: referencingModule.context });
    
        // Using `contextifiedObject` instead of `referencingModule.context`
        // here would work as well.
      }
      throw new Error(`Unable to resolve dependency: ${specifier}`);
    }
    await bar.link(linker);
    
    // Step 3
    //
    // Evaluate the Module. The evaluate() method returns a promise which will
    // resolve after the module has finished evaluating.
    
    // Prints 42.
    await bar.evaluate();const vm = require('node:vm');
    
    const contextifiedObject = vm.createContext({
      secret: 42,
      print: console.log,
    });
    
    (async () => {
      // Step 1
      //
      // Create a Module by constructing a new `vm.SourceTextModule` object. This
      // parses the provided source text, throwing a `SyntaxError` if anything goes
      // wrong. By default, a Module is created in the top context. But here, we
      // specify `contextifiedObject` as the context this Module belongs to.
      //
      // Here, we attempt to obtain the default export from the module "foo", and
      // put it into local binding "secret".
    
      const bar = new vm.SourceTextModule(`
        import s from 'foo';
        s;
        print(s);
      `, { context: contextifiedObject });
    
      // Step 2
      //
      // "Link" the imported dependencies of this Module to it.
      //
      // The provided linking callback (the "linker") accepts two arguments: the
      // parent module (`bar` in this case) and the string that is the specifier of
      // the imported module. The callback is expected to return a Module that
      // corresponds to the provided specifier, with certain requirements documented
      // in `module.link()`.
      //
      // If linking has not started for the returned Module, the same linker
      // callback will be called on the returned Module.
      //
      // Even top-level Modules without dependencies must be explicitly linked. The
      // callback provided would never be called, however.
      //
      // The link() method returns a Promise that will be resolved when all the
      // Promises returned by the linker resolve.
      //
      // Note: This is a contrived example in that the linker function creates a new
      // "foo" module every time it is called. In a full-fledged module system, a
      // cache would probably be used to avoid duplicated modules.
    
      async function linker(specifier, referencingModule) {
        if (specifier === 'foo') {
          return new vm.SourceTextModule(`
            // The "secret" variable refers to the global variable we added to
            // "contextifiedObject" when creating the context.
            export default secret;
          `, { context: referencingModule.context });
    
          // Using `contextifiedObject` instead of `referencingModule.context`
          // here would work as well.
        }
        throw new Error(`Unable to resolve dependency: ${specifier}`);
      }
      await bar.link(linker);
    
      // Step 3
      //
      // Evaluate the Module. The evaluate() method returns a promise which will
      // resolve after the module has finished evaluating.
    
      // Prints 42.
      await bar.evaluate();
    })();copy

#### `module.dependencySpecifiers`#

  * [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The specifiers of all dependencies of this module. The returned array is
frozen to disallow any changes to it.

Corresponds to the `[[RequestedModules]]` field of [Cyclic Module
Record](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-cyclic-module-records)s in the ECMAScript
specification.

#### `module.error`#

  * [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

If the `module.status` is `'errored'`, this property contains the exception
thrown by the module during evaluation. If the status is anything else,
accessing this property will result in a thrown exception.

The value `undefined` cannot be used for cases where there is not a thrown
exception due to possible ambiguity with `throw undefined;`.

Corresponds to the `[[EvaluationError]]` field of [Cyclic Module
Record](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-cyclic-module-records)s in the ECMAScript
specification.

#### `module.evaluate([options])`#

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `timeout` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the number of milliseconds to evaluate before terminating execution. If execution is interrupted, an `Error` will be thrown. This value must be a strictly positive integer.
    * `breakOnSigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, receiving `SIGINT` (`Ctrl`+`C`) will terminate execution and throw an `Error`. Existing handlers for the event that have been attached via `process.on('SIGINT')` are disabled during script execution, but continue to work after that. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with `undefined` upon success.

Evaluate the module.

This must be called after the module has been linked; otherwise it will
reject. It could be called also when the module has already been evaluated, in
which case it will either do nothing if the initial evaluation ended in
success (`module.status` is `'evaluated'`) or it will re-throw the exception
that the initial evaluation resulted in (`module.status` is `'errored'`).

This method cannot be called while the module is being evaluated
(`module.status` is `'evaluating'`).

Corresponds to the [Evaluate() concrete method](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-
moduleevaluation) field of [Cyclic Module
Record](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-cyclic-module-records)s in the ECMAScript
specification.

#### `module.identifier`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The identifier of the current module, as set in the constructor.

#### `module.link(linker)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.1.0, v20.10.0, v18.19.0 | The option `extra.assert` is renamed to `extra.attributes`. The former name is still provided for backward compatibility.  
  
  * `linker` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `specifier` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The specifier of the requested module:
        
                import foo from 'foo';
        //              ^^^^^ the module specifier copy

    * `referencingModule` <vm.Module> The `Module` object `link()` is called on.

    * `extra` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

      * `attributes` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The data from the attribute: 
            
                        import foo from 'foo' with { name: 'value' };
            //                         ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ the attribute copy

Per ECMA-262, hosts are expected to trigger an error if an unsupported
attribute is present.

      * `assert` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Alias for `extra.attributes`.
    * Returns: <vm.Module> | [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Link module dependencies. This method must be called before evaluation, and
can only be called once per module.

The function is expected to return a `Module` object or a `Promise` that
eventually resolves to a `Module` object. The returned `Module` must satisfy
the following two invariants:

  * It must belong to the same context as the parent `Module`.
  * Its `status` must not be `'errored'`.

If the returned `Module`'s `status` is `'unlinked'`, this method will be
recursively called on the returned `Module` with the same provided `linker`
function.

`link()` returns a `Promise` that will either get resolved when all linking
instances resolve to a valid `Module`, or rejected if the linker function
either throws an exception or returns an invalid `Module`.

The linker function roughly corresponds to the implementation-defined
[HostResolveImportedModule](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-
hostresolveimportedmodule) abstract operation in the ECMAScript specification,
with a few key differences:

  * The linker function is allowed to be asynchronous while [HostResolveImportedModule](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-hostresolveimportedmodule) is synchronous.

The actual [HostResolveImportedModule](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-
hostresolveimportedmodule) implementation used during module linking is one
that returns the modules linked during linking. Since at that point all
modules would have been fully linked already, the
[HostResolveImportedModule](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-
hostresolveimportedmodule) implementation is fully synchronous per
specification.

Corresponds to the [Link() concrete method](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-
moduledeclarationlinking) field of [Cyclic Module
Record](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-cyclic-module-records)s in the ECMAScript
specification.

#### `module.namespace`#

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

The namespace object of the module. This is only available after linking
(`module.link()`) has completed.

Corresponds to the [GetModuleNamespace](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-
getmodulenamespace) abstract operation in the ECMAScript specification.

#### `module.status`#

  * [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The current status of the module. Will be one of:

  * `'unlinked'`: `module.link()` has not yet been called.

  * `'linking'`: `module.link()` has been called, but not all Promises returned by the linker function have been resolved yet.

  * `'linked'`: The module has been linked successfully, and all of its dependencies are linked, but `module.evaluate()` has not yet been called.

  * `'evaluating'`: The module is being evaluated through a `module.evaluate()` on itself or a parent module.

  * `'evaluated'`: The module has been successfully evaluated.

  * `'errored'`: The module has been evaluated, but an exception was thrown.

Other than `'errored'`, this status string corresponds to the specification's
[Cyclic Module Record](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-cyclic-module-records)'s
`[[Status]]` field. `'errored'` corresponds to `'evaluated'` in the
specification, but with `[[EvaluationError]]` set to a value that is not
`undefined`.

### Class: `vm.SourceTextModule`#

Added in: v9.6.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

This feature is only available with the `--experimental-vm-modules` command
flag enabled.

  * Extends: <vm.Module>

The `vm.SourceTextModule` class provides the [Source Text Module
Record](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sec-source-text-module-records) as defined in
the ECMAScript specification.

#### `new vm.SourceTextModule(code[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.0.0, v16.12.0 | Added support for import attributes to the `importModuleDynamically` parameter.  
  
  * `code` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) JavaScript Module code to parse
  * `options`
    * `identifier` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) String used in stack traces. **Default:** `'vm:module(i)'` where `i` is a context-specific ascending index.
    * `cachedData` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) Provides an optional `Buffer` or `TypedArray`, or `DataView` with V8's code cache data for the supplied source. The `code` must be the same as the module from which this `cachedData` was created.
    * `context` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The contextified object as returned by the `vm.createContext()` method, to compile and evaluate this `Module` in. If no context is specified, the module is evaluated in the current execution context.
    * `lineOffset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the line number offset that is displayed in stack traces produced by this `Module`. **Default:** `0`.
    * `columnOffset` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the first-line column number offset that is displayed in stack traces produced by this `Module`. **Default:** `0`.
    * `initializeImportMeta` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Called during evaluation of this `Module` to initialize the `import.meta`. 
      * `meta` <import.meta>
      * `module` <vm.SourceTextModule>
    * `importModuleDynamically` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Used to specify the how the modules should be loaded during the evaluation of this module when `import()` is called. This option is part of the experimental modules API. We do not recommend using it in a production environment. For detailed information, see Support of dynamic `import()` in compilation APIs.

Creates a new `SourceTextModule` instance.

Properties assigned to the `import.meta` object that are objects may allow the
module to access information outside the specified `context`. Use
`vm.runInContext()` to create objects in a specific context.

    
    
    import vm from 'node:vm';
    
    const contextifiedObject = vm.createContext({ secret: 42 });
    
    const module = new vm.SourceTextModule(
      'Object.getPrototypeOf(import.meta.prop).secret = secret;',
      {
        initializeImportMeta(meta) {
          // Note: this object is created in the top context. As such,
          // Object.getPrototypeOf(import.meta.prop) points to the
          // Object.prototype in the top context rather than that in
          // the contextified object.
          meta.prop = {};
        },
      });
    // Since module has no dependencies, the linker function will never be called.
    await module.link(() => {});
    await module.evaluate();
    
    // Now, Object.prototype.secret will be equal to 42.
    //
    // To fix this problem, replace
    //     meta.prop = {};
    // above with
    //     meta.prop = vm.runInContext('{}', contextifiedObject);const vm = require('node:vm');
    const contextifiedObject = vm.createContext({ secret: 42 });
    (async () => {
      const module = new vm.SourceTextModule(
        'Object.getPrototypeOf(import.meta.prop).secret = secret;',
        {
          initializeImportMeta(meta) {
            // Note: this object is created in the top context. As such,
            // Object.getPrototypeOf(import.meta.prop) points to the
            // Object.prototype in the top context rather than that in
            // the contextified object.
            meta.prop = {};
          },
        });
      // Since module has no dependencies, the linker function will never be called.
      await module.link(() => {});
      await module.evaluate();
      // Now, Object.prototype.secret will be equal to 42.
      //
      // To fix this problem, replace
      //     meta.prop = {};
      // above with
      //     meta.prop = vm.runInContext('{}', contextifiedObject);
    })();copy

#### `sourceTextModule.createCachedData()`#

Added in: v13.7.0, v12.17.0

  * Returns: <Buffer>

Creates a code cache that can be used with the `SourceTextModule`
constructor's `cachedData` option. Returns a `Buffer`. This method may be
called any number of times before the module has been evaluated.

The code cache of the `SourceTextModule` doesn't contain any JavaScript
observable states. The code cache is safe to be saved along side the script
source and used to construct new `SourceTextModule` instances multiple times.

Functions in the `SourceTextModule` source can be marked as lazily compiled
and they are not compiled at construction of the `SourceTextModule`. These
functions are going to be compiled when they are invoked the first time. The
code cache serializes the metadata that V8 currently knows about the
`SourceTextModule` that it can use to speed up future compilations.

    
    
    // Create an initial module
    const module = new vm.SourceTextModule('const a = 1;');
    
    // Create cached data from this module
    const cachedData = module.createCachedData();
    
    // Create a new module using the cached data. The code must be the same.
    const module2 = new vm.SourceTextModule('const a = 1;', { cachedData }); copy

### Class: `vm.SyntheticModule`#

Added in: v13.0.0, v12.16.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

This feature is only available with the `--experimental-vm-modules` command
flag enabled.

  * Extends: <vm.Module>

The `vm.SyntheticModule` class provides the [Synthetic Module
Record](https://heycam.github.io/webidl/#synthetic-module-records) as defined
in the WebIDL specification. The purpose of synthetic modules is to provide a
generic interface for exposing non-JavaScript sources to ECMAScript module
graphs.

    
    
    const vm = require('node:vm');
    
    const source = '{ "a": 1 }';
    const module = new vm.SyntheticModule(['default'], function() {
      const obj = JSON.parse(source);
      this.setExport('default', obj);
    });
    
    // Use `module` in linking... copy

#### `new vm.SyntheticModule(exportNames, evaluateCallback[, options])`#

Added in: v13.0.0, v12.16.0

  * `exportNames` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Array of names that will be exported from the module.
  * `evaluateCallback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Called when the module is evaluated.
  * `options`
    * `identifier` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) String used in stack traces. **Default:** `'vm:module(i)'` where `i` is a context-specific ascending index.
    * `context` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The contextified object as returned by the `vm.createContext()` method, to compile and evaluate this `Module` in.

Creates a new `SyntheticModule` instance.

Objects assigned to the exports of this instance may allow importers of the
module to access information outside the specified `context`. Use
`vm.runInContext()` to create objects in a specific context.

#### `syntheticModule.setExport(name, value)`#

Added in: v13.0.0, v12.16.0

  * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Name of the export to set.
  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The value to set the export to.

This method is used after the module is linked to set the values of exports.
If it is called before the module is linked, an `ERR_VM_MODULE_STATUS` error
will be thrown.

    
    
    import vm from 'node:vm';
    
    const m = new vm.SyntheticModule(['x'], () => {
      m.setExport('x', 1);
    });
    
    await m.link(() => {});
    await m.evaluate();
    
    assert.strictEqual(m.namespace.x, 1);const vm = require('node:vm');
    (async () => {
      const m = new vm.SyntheticModule(['x'], () => {
        m.setExport('x', 1);
      });
      await m.link(() => {});
      await m.evaluate();
      assert.strictEqual(m.namespace.x, 1);
    })();copy

### `vm.compileFunction(code[, params[, options]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.7.0, v20.12.0 | Added support for `vm.constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER`.  
v19.6.0, v18.15.0 | The return value now includes `cachedDataRejected` with the same semantics as the `vm.Script` version if the `cachedData` option was passed.  
v17.0.0, v16.12.0 | Added support for import attributes to the `importModuleDynamically` parameter.  
v15.9.0 | Added `importModuleDynamically` option again.  
v14.3.0 | Removal of `importModuleDynamically` due to compatibility issues.  
v14.1.0, v13.14.0 | The `importModuleDynamically` option is now supported.  
v10.10.0 | Added in: v10.10.0  
  
  * `code` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The body of the function to compile.
  * `params` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) An array of strings containing all parameters for the function.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `filename` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Specifies the filename used in stack traces produced by this script. **Default:** `''`.
    * `lineOffset` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the line number offset that is displayed in stack traces produced by this script. **Default:** `0`.
    * `columnOffset` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the first-line column number offset that is displayed in stack traces produced by this script. **Default:** `0`.
    * `cachedData` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) Provides an optional `Buffer` or `TypedArray`, or `DataView` with V8's code cache data for the supplied source. This must be produced by a prior call to `vm.compileFunction()` with the same `code` and `params`.
    * `produceCachedData` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Specifies whether to produce new cache data. **Default:** `false`.
    * `parsingContext` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The contextified object in which the said function should be compiled in.
    * `contextExtensions` [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An array containing a collection of context extensions (objects wrapping the current scope) to be applied while compiling. **Default:** `[]`.
  * `importModuleDynamically` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <vm.constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER> Used to specify the how the modules should be loaded during the evaluation of this function when `import()` is called. This option is part of the experimental modules API. We do not recommend using it in a production environment. For detailed information, see Support of dynamic `import()` in compilation APIs.
  * Returns: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Compiles the given code into the provided context (if no context is supplied,
the current context is used), and returns it wrapped inside a function with
the given `params`.

### `vm.constants`#

Added in: v21.7.0, v20.12.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Returns an object containing commonly used constants for VM operations.

#### `vm.constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER`#

Added in: v21.7.0, v20.12.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

A constant that can be used as the `importModuleDynamically` option to
`vm.Script` and `vm.compileFunction()` so that Node.js uses the default ESM
loader from the main context to load the requested module.

For detailed information, see Support of dynamic `import()` in compilation
APIs.

### `vm.createContext([contextObject[, options]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.8.0, v20.18.0 | The `contextObject` argument now accepts `vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY`.  
v21.7.0, v20.12.0 | Added support for `vm.constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER`.  
v21.2.0, v20.11.0 | The `importModuleDynamically` option is supported now.  
v14.6.0 | The `microtaskMode` option is supported now.  
v10.0.0 | The first argument can no longer be a function.  
v10.0.0 | The `codeGeneration` option is supported now.  
v0.3.1 | Added in: v0.3.1  
  
  * `contextObject` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | <vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY> | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Either `vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY` or an object that will be contextified. If `undefined`, an empty contextified object will be created for backwards compatibility.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Human-readable name of the newly created context. **Default:** `'VM Context i'`, where `i` is an ascending numerical index of the created context.
    * `origin` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) [Origin](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Origin) corresponding to the newly created context for display purposes. The origin should be formatted like a URL, but with only the scheme, host, and port (if necessary), like the value of the `url.origin` property of a `URL` object. Most notably, this string should omit the trailing slash, as that denotes a path. **Default:** `''`.
    * `codeGeneration` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
      * `strings` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to false any calls to `eval` or function constructors (`Function`, `GeneratorFunction`, etc) will throw an `EvalError`. **Default:** `true`.
      * `wasm` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to false any attempt to compile a WebAssembly module will throw a `WebAssembly.CompileError`. **Default:** `true`.
    * `microtaskMode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If set to `afterEvaluate`, microtasks (tasks scheduled through `Promise`s and `async function`s) will be run immediately after a script has run through `script.runInContext()`. They are included in the `timeout` and `breakOnSigint` scopes in that case.
    * `importModuleDynamically` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <vm.constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER> Used to specify the how the modules should be loaded when `import()` is called in this context without a referrer script or module. This option is part of the experimental modules API. We do not recommend using it in a production environment. For detailed information, see Support of dynamic `import()` in compilation APIs.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) contextified object.

If the given `contextObject` is an object, the `vm.createContext()` method
will prepare that object and return a reference to it so that it can be used
in calls to `vm.runInContext()` or `script.runInContext()`. Inside such
scripts, the global object will be wrapped by the `contextObject`, retaining
all of its existing properties but also having the built-in objects and
functions any standard [global object](https://es5.github.io/#x15.1) has.
Outside of scripts run by the vm module, global variables will remain
unchanged.

    
    
    const vm = require('node:vm');
    
    global.globalVar = 3;
    
    const context = { globalVar: 1 };
    vm.createContext(context);
    
    vm.runInContext('globalVar *= 2;', context);
    
    console.log(context);
    // Prints: { globalVar: 2 }
    
    console.log(global.globalVar);
    // Prints: 3 copy

If `contextObject` is omitted (or passed explicitly as `undefined`), a new,
empty contextified object will be returned.

When the global object in the newly created context is contextified, it has
some quirks compared to ordinary global objects. For example, it cannot be
frozen. To create a context without the contextifying quirks, pass
`vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY` as the `contextObject` argument. See the
documentation of `vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY` for details.

The `vm.createContext()` method is primarily useful for creating a single
context that can be used to run multiple scripts. For instance, if emulating a
web browser, the method can be used to create a single context representing a
window's global object, then run all `<script>` tags together within that
context.

The provided `name` and `origin` of the context are made visible through the
Inspector API.

### `vm.isContext(object)`#

Added in: v0.11.7

  * `object` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Returns `true` if the given `object` object has been contextified using
`vm.createContext()`, or if it's the global object of a context created using
`vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY`.

### `vm.measureMemory([options])`#

Added in: v13.10.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Measure the memory known to V8 and used by all contexts known to the current
V8 isolate, or the main context.

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Optional. 
    * `mode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Either `'summary'` or `'detailed'`. In summary mode, only the memory measured for the main context will be returned. In detailed mode, the memory measured for all contexts known to the current V8 isolate will be returned. **Default:** `'summary'`
    * `execution` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Either `'default'` or `'eager'`. With default execution, the promise will not resolve until after the next scheduled garbage collection starts, which may take a while (or never if the program exits before the next GC). With eager execution, the GC will be started right away to measure the memory. **Default:** `'default'`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) If the memory is successfully measured, the promise will resolve with an object containing information about the memory usage. Otherwise it will be rejected with an `ERR_CONTEXT_NOT_INITIALIZED` error.

The format of the object that the returned Promise may resolve with is
specific to the V8 engine and may change from one version of V8 to the next.

The returned result is different from the statistics returned by
`v8.getHeapSpaceStatistics()` in that `vm.measureMemory()` measure the memory
reachable by each V8 specific contexts in the current instance of the V8
engine, while the result of `v8.getHeapSpaceStatistics()` measure the memory
occupied by each heap space in the current V8 instance.

    
    
    const vm = require('node:vm');
    // Measure the memory used by the main context.
    vm.measureMemory({ mode: 'summary' })
      // This is the same as vm.measureMemory()
      .then((result) => {
        // The current format is:
        // {
        //   total: {
        //      jsMemoryEstimate: 2418479, jsMemoryRange: [ 2418479, 2745799 ]
        //    }
        // }
        console.log(result);
      });
    
    const context = vm.createContext({ a: 1 });
    vm.measureMemory({ mode: 'detailed', execution: 'eager' })
      .then((result) => {
        // Reference the context here so that it won't be GC'ed
        // until the measurement is complete.
        console.log(context.a);
        // {
        //   total: {
        //     jsMemoryEstimate: 2574732,
        //     jsMemoryRange: [ 2574732, 2904372 ]
        //   },
        //   current: {
        //     jsMemoryEstimate: 2438996,
        //     jsMemoryRange: [ 2438996, 2768636 ]
        //   },
        //   other: [
        //     {
        //       jsMemoryEstimate: 135736,
        //       jsMemoryRange: [ 135736, 465376 ]
        //     }
        //   ]
        // }
        console.log(result);
      }); copy

### `vm.runInContext(code, contextifiedObject[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.7.0, v20.12.0 | Added support for `vm.constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER`.  
v17.0.0, v16.12.0 | Added support for import attributes to the `importModuleDynamically` parameter.  
v6.3.0 | The `breakOnSigint` option is supported now.  
v0.3.1 | Added in: v0.3.1  
  
  * `code` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The JavaScript code to compile and run.
  * `contextifiedObject` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The contextified object that will be used as the `global` when the `code` is compiled and run.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `filename` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Specifies the filename used in stack traces produced by this script. **Default:** `'evalmachine.<anonymous>'`.
    * `lineOffset` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the line number offset that is displayed in stack traces produced by this script. **Default:** `0`.
    * `columnOffset` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the first-line column number offset that is displayed in stack traces produced by this script. **Default:** `0`.
    * `displayErrors` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, if an `Error` occurs while compiling the `code`, the line of code causing the error is attached to the stack trace. **Default:** `true`.
    * `timeout` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the number of milliseconds to execute `code` before terminating execution. If execution is terminated, an `Error` will be thrown. This value must be a strictly positive integer.
    * `breakOnSigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, receiving `SIGINT` (`Ctrl`+`C`) will terminate execution and throw an `Error`. Existing handlers for the event that have been attached via `process.on('SIGINT')` are disabled during script execution, but continue to work after that. **Default:** `false`.
    * `cachedData` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) Provides an optional `Buffer` or `TypedArray`, or `DataView` with V8's code cache data for the supplied source.
    * `importModuleDynamically` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <vm.constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER> Used to specify the how the modules should be loaded during the evaluation of this script when `import()` is called. This option is part of the experimental modules API. We do not recommend using it in a production environment. For detailed information, see Support of dynamic `import()` in compilation APIs.

The `vm.runInContext()` method compiles `code`, runs it within the context of
the `contextifiedObject`, then returns the result. Running code does not have
access to the local scope. The `contextifiedObject` object _must_ have been
previously contextified using the `vm.createContext()` method.

If `options` is a string, then it specifies the filename.

The following example compiles and executes different scripts using a single
contextified object:

    
    
    const vm = require('node:vm');
    
    const contextObject = { globalVar: 1 };
    vm.createContext(contextObject);
    
    for (let i = 0; i < 10; ++i) {
      vm.runInContext('globalVar *= 2;', contextObject);
    }
    console.log(contextObject);
    // Prints: { globalVar: 1024 } copy

### `vm.runInNewContext(code[, contextObject[, options]])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.8.0, v20.18.0 | The `contextObject` argument now accepts `vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY`.  
v21.7.0, v20.12.0 | Added support for `vm.constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER`.  
v17.0.0, v16.12.0 | Added support for import attributes to the `importModuleDynamically` parameter.  
v14.6.0 | The `microtaskMode` option is supported now.  
v10.0.0 | The `contextCodeGeneration` option is supported now.  
v6.3.0 | The `breakOnSigint` option is supported now.  
v0.3.1 | Added in: v0.3.1  
  
  * `code` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The JavaScript code to compile and run.
  * `contextObject` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | <vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY> | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type) Either `vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY` or an object that will be contextified. If `undefined`, an empty contextified object will be created for backwards compatibility.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `filename` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Specifies the filename used in stack traces produced by this script. **Default:** `'evalmachine.<anonymous>'`.
    * `lineOffset` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the line number offset that is displayed in stack traces produced by this script. **Default:** `0`.
    * `columnOffset` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the first-line column number offset that is displayed in stack traces produced by this script. **Default:** `0`.
    * `displayErrors` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, if an `Error` occurs while compiling the `code`, the line of code causing the error is attached to the stack trace. **Default:** `true`.
    * `timeout` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the number of milliseconds to execute `code` before terminating execution. If execution is terminated, an `Error` will be thrown. This value must be a strictly positive integer.
    * `breakOnSigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, receiving `SIGINT` (`Ctrl`+`C`) will terminate execution and throw an `Error`. Existing handlers for the event that have been attached via `process.on('SIGINT')` are disabled during script execution, but continue to work after that. **Default:** `false`.
    * `contextName` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Human-readable name of the newly created context. **Default:** `'VM Context i'`, where `i` is an ascending numerical index of the created context.
    * `contextOrigin` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) [Origin](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Origin) corresponding to the newly created context for display purposes. The origin should be formatted like a URL, but with only the scheme, host, and port (if necessary), like the value of the `url.origin` property of a `URL` object. Most notably, this string should omit the trailing slash, as that denotes a path. **Default:** `''`.
    * `contextCodeGeneration` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
      * `strings` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to false any calls to `eval` or function constructors (`Function`, `GeneratorFunction`, etc) will throw an `EvalError`. **Default:** `true`.
      * `wasm` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If set to false any attempt to compile a WebAssembly module will throw a `WebAssembly.CompileError`. **Default:** `true`.
    * `cachedData` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) Provides an optional `Buffer` or `TypedArray`, or `DataView` with V8's code cache data for the supplied source.
    * `importModuleDynamically` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <vm.constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER> Used to specify the how the modules should be loaded during the evaluation of this script when `import()` is called. This option is part of the experimental modules API. We do not recommend using it in a production environment. For detailed information, see Support of dynamic `import()` in compilation APIs.
    * `microtaskMode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) If set to `afterEvaluate`, microtasks (tasks scheduled through `Promise`s and `async function`s) will be run immediately after the script has run. They are included in the `timeout` and `breakOnSigint` scopes in that case.
  * Returns: [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) the result of the very last statement executed in the script.

This method is a shortcut to `(new vm.Script(code,
options)).runInContext(vm.createContext(options), options)`. If `options` is a
string, then it specifies the filename.

It does several things at once:

  1. Creates a new context.
  2. If `contextObject` is an object, contextifies it with the new context. If `contextObject` is undefined, creates a new object and contextifies it. If `contextObject` is `vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY`, don't contextify anything.
  3. Compiles the code as a`vm.Script`
  4. Runs the compield code within the created context. The code does not have access to the scope in which this method is called.
  5. Returns the result.

The following example compiles and executes code that increments a global
variable and sets a new one. These globals are contained in the
`contextObject`.

    
    
    const vm = require('node:vm');
    
    const contextObject = {
      animal: 'cat',
      count: 2,
    };
    
    vm.runInNewContext('count += 1; name = "kitty"', contextObject);
    console.log(contextObject);
    // Prints: { animal: 'cat', count: 3, name: 'kitty' }
    
    // This would throw if the context is created from a contextified object.
    // vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY allows creating contexts with ordinary global objects that
    // can be frozen.
    const frozenContext = vm.runInNewContext('Object.freeze(globalThis); globalThis;', vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY); copy

### `vm.runInThisContext(code[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.7.0, v20.12.0 | Added support for `vm.constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER`.  
v17.0.0, v16.12.0 | Added support for import attributes to the `importModuleDynamically` parameter.  
v6.3.0 | The `breakOnSigint` option is supported now.  
v0.3.1 | Added in: v0.3.1  
  
  * `code` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The JavaScript code to compile and run.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
    * `filename` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Specifies the filename used in stack traces produced by this script. **Default:** `'evalmachine.<anonymous>'`.
    * `lineOffset` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the line number offset that is displayed in stack traces produced by this script. **Default:** `0`.
    * `columnOffset` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the first-line column number offset that is displayed in stack traces produced by this script. **Default:** `0`.
    * `displayErrors` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, if an `Error` occurs while compiling the `code`, the line of code causing the error is attached to the stack trace. **Default:** `true`.
    * `timeout` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Specifies the number of milliseconds to execute `code` before terminating execution. If execution is terminated, an `Error` will be thrown. This value must be a strictly positive integer.
    * `breakOnSigint` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true`, receiving `SIGINT` (`Ctrl`+`C`) will terminate execution and throw an `Error`. Existing handlers for the event that have been attached via `process.on('SIGINT')` are disabled during script execution, but continue to work after that. **Default:** `false`.
    * `cachedData` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) Provides an optional `Buffer` or `TypedArray`, or `DataView` with V8's code cache data for the supplied source.
    * `importModuleDynamically` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <vm.constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER> Used to specify the how the modules should be loaded during the evaluation of this script when `import()` is called. This option is part of the experimental modules API. We do not recommend using it in a production environment. For detailed information, see Support of dynamic `import()` in compilation APIs.
  * Returns: [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) the result of the very last statement executed in the script.

`vm.runInThisContext()` compiles `code`, runs it within the context of the
current `global` and returns the result. Running code does not have access to
local scope, but does have access to the current `global` object.

If `options` is a string, then it specifies the filename.

The following example illustrates using both `vm.runInThisContext()` and the
JavaScript [`eval()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/eval) function to run the same
code:

    
    
    const vm = require('node:vm');
    let localVar = 'initial value';
    
    const vmResult = vm.runInThisContext('localVar = "vm";');
    console.log(`vmResult: '${vmResult}', localVar: '${localVar}'`);
    // Prints: vmResult: 'vm', localVar: 'initial value'
    
    const evalResult = eval('localVar = "eval";');
    console.log(`evalResult: '${evalResult}', localVar: '${localVar}'`);
    // Prints: evalResult: 'eval', localVar: 'eval' copy

Because `vm.runInThisContext()` does not have access to the local scope,
`localVar` is unchanged. In contrast,
[`eval()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/eval) _does_ have access to
the local scope, so the value `localVar` is changed. In this way
`vm.runInThisContext()` is much like an [indirect `eval()`
call](https://es5.github.io/#x10.4.2), e.g. `(0,eval)('code')`.

### Example: Running an HTTP server within a VM#

When using either `script.runInThisContext()` or `vm.runInThisContext()`, the
code is executed within the current V8 global context. The code passed to this
VM context will have its own isolated scope.

In order to run a simple web server using the `node:http` module the code
passed to the context must either call `require('node:http')` on its own, or
have a reference to the `node:http` module passed to it. For instance:

    
    
    'use strict';
    const vm = require('node:vm');
    
    const code = `
    ((require) => {
      const http = require('node:http');
    
      http.createServer((request, response) => {
        response.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Type': 'text/plain' });
        response.end('Hello World\\n');
      }).listen(8124);
    
      console.log('Server running at http://127.0.0.1:8124/');
    })`;
    
    vm.runInThisContext(code)(require); copy

The `require()` in the above case shares the state with the context it is
passed from. This may introduce risks when untrusted code is executed, e.g.
altering objects in the context in unwanted ways.

### What does it mean to "contextify" an object?#

All JavaScript executed within Node.js runs within the scope of a "context".
According to the [V8 Embedder's Guide](https://v8.dev/docs/embed#contexts):

> In V8, a context is an execution environment that allows separate,
> unrelated, JavaScript applications to run in a single instance of V8. You
> must explicitly specify the context in which you want any JavaScript code to
> be run.

When the method `vm.createContext()` is called with an object, the
`contextObject` argument will be used to wrap the global object of a new
instance of a V8 Context (if `contextObject` is `undefined`, a new object will
be created from the current context before its contextified). This V8 Context
provides the `code` run using the `node:vm` module's methods with an isolated
global environment within which it can operate. The process of creating the V8
Context and associating it with the `contextObject` in the outer context is
what this document refers to as "contextifying" the object.

The contextifying would introduce some quirks to the `globalThis` value in the
context. For example, it cannot be frozen, and it is not reference equal to
the `contextObject` in the outer context.

    
    
    const vm = require('node:vm');
    
    // An undefined `contextObject` option makes the global object contextified.
    const context = vm.createContext();
    console.log(vm.runInContext('globalThis', context) === context);  // false
    // A contextified global object cannot be frozen.
    try {
      vm.runInContext('Object.freeze(globalThis);', context);
    } catch (e) {
      console.log(e); // TypeError: Cannot freeze
    }
    console.log(vm.runInContext('globalThis.foo = 1; foo;', context));  // 1 copy

To create a context with an ordinary global object and get access to a global
proxy in the outer context with fewer quirks, specify
`vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY` as the `contextObject` argument.

#### `vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY`#

This constant, when used as the `contextObject` argument in vm APIs, instructs
Node.js to create a context without wrapping its global object with another
object in a Node.js-specific manner. As a result, the `globalThis` value
inside the new context would behave more closely to an ordinary one.

    
    
    const vm = require('node:vm');
    
    // Use vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY to freeze the global object.
    const context = vm.createContext(vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY);
    vm.runInContext('Object.freeze(globalThis);', context);
    try {
      vm.runInContext('bar = 1; bar;', context);
    } catch (e) {
      console.log(e); // Uncaught ReferenceError: bar is not defined
    } copy

When `vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY` is used as the `contextObject` argument to
`vm.createContext()`, the returned object is a proxy-like object to the global
object in the newly created context with fewer Node.js-specific quirks. It is
reference equal to the `globalThis` value in the new context, can be modified
from outside the context, and can be used to access built-ins in the new
context directly.

    
    
    const vm = require('node:vm');
    
    const context = vm.createContext(vm.constants.DONT_CONTEXTIFY);
    
    // Returned object is reference equal to globalThis in the new context.
    console.log(vm.runInContext('globalThis', context) === context);  // true
    
    // Can be used to access globals in the new context directly.
    console.log(context.Array);  // [Function: Array]
    vm.runInContext('foo = 1;', context);
    console.log(context.foo);  // 1
    context.bar = 1;
    console.log(vm.runInContext('bar;', context));  // 1
    
    // Can be frozen and it affects the inner context.
    Object.freeze(context);
    try {
      vm.runInContext('baz = 1; baz;', context);
    } catch (e) {
      console.log(e); // Uncaught ReferenceError: baz is not defined
    } copy

### Timeout interactions with asynchronous tasks and Promises#

`Promise`s and `async function`s can schedule tasks run by the JavaScript
engine asynchronously. By default, these tasks are run after all JavaScript
functions on the current stack are done executing. This allows escaping the
functionality of the `timeout` and `breakOnSigint` options.

For example, the following code executed by `vm.runInNewContext()` with a
timeout of 5 milliseconds schedules an infinite loop to run after a promise
resolves. The scheduled loop is never interrupted by the timeout:

    
    
    const vm = require('node:vm');
    
    function loop() {
      console.log('entering loop');
      while (1) console.log(Date.now());
    }
    
    vm.runInNewContext(
      'Promise.resolve().then(() => loop());',
      { loop, console },
      { timeout: 5 },
    );
    // This is printed *before* 'entering loop' (!)
    console.log('done executing'); copy

This can be addressed by passing `microtaskMode: 'afterEvaluate'` to the code
that creates the `Context`:

    
    
    const vm = require('node:vm');
    
    function loop() {
      while (1) console.log(Date.now());
    }
    
    vm.runInNewContext(
      'Promise.resolve().then(() => loop());',
      { loop, console },
      { timeout: 5, microtaskMode: 'afterEvaluate' },
    ); copy

In this case, the microtask scheduled through `promise.then()` will be run
before returning from `vm.runInNewContext()`, and will be interrupted by the
`timeout` functionality. This applies only to code running in a `vm.Context`,
so e.g. `vm.runInThisContext()` does not take this option.

Promise callbacks are entered into the microtask queue of the context in which
they were created. For example, if `() => loop()` is replaced with just `loop`
in the above example, then `loop` will be pushed into the global microtask
queue, because it is a function from the outer (main) context, and thus will
also be able to escape the timeout.

If asynchronous scheduling functions such as `process.nextTick()`,
`queueMicrotask()`, `setTimeout()`, `setImmediate()`, etc. are made available
inside a `vm.Context`, functions passed to them will be added to global
queues, which are shared by all contexts. Therefore, callbacks passed to those
functions are not controllable through the timeout either.

### Support of dynamic `import()` in compilation APIs#

The following APIs support an `importModuleDynamically` option to enable
dynamic `import()` in code compiled by the vm module.

  * `new vm.Script`
  * `vm.compileFunction()`
  * `new vm.SourceTextModule`
  * `vm.runInThisContext()`
  * `vm.runInContext()`
  * `vm.runInNewContext()`
  * `vm.createContext()`

This option is still part of the experimental modules API. We do not recommend
using it in a production environment.

#### When the `importModuleDynamically` option is not specified or undefined#

If this option is not specified, or if it's `undefined`, code containing
`import()` can still be compiled by the vm APIs, but when the compiled code is
executed and it actually calls `import()`, the result will reject with
`ERR_VM_DYNAMIC_IMPORT_CALLBACK_MISSING`.

#### When `importModuleDynamically` is
`vm.constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER`#

This option is currently not supported for `vm.SourceTextModule`.

With this option, when an `import()` is initiated in the compiled code,
Node.js would use the default ESM loader from the main context to load the
requested module and return it to the code being executed.

This gives access to Node.js built-in modules such as `fs` or `http` to the
code being compiled. If the code is executed in a different context, be aware
that the objects created by modules loaded from the main context are still
from the main context and not `instanceof` built-in classes in the new
context.

    
    
    const { Script, constants } = require('node:vm');
    const script = new Script(
      'import("node:fs").then(({readFile}) => readFile instanceof Function)',
      { importModuleDynamically: constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER });
    
    // false: URL loaded from the main context is not an instance of the Function
    // class in the new context.
    script.runInNewContext().then(console.log);import { Script, constants } from 'node:vm';
    
    const script = new Script(
      'import("node:fs").then(({readFile}) => readFile instanceof Function)',
      { importModuleDynamically: constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER });
    
    // false: URL loaded from the main context is not an instance of the Function
    // class in the new context.
    script.runInNewContext().then(console.log);copy

This option also allows the script or function to load user modules:

    
    
    import { Script, constants } from 'node:vm';
    import { resolve } from 'node:path';
    import { writeFileSync } from 'node:fs';
    
    // Write test.js and test.txt to the directory where the current script
    // being run is located.
    writeFileSync(resolve(import.meta.dirname, 'test.mjs'),
                  'export const filename = "./test.json";');
    writeFileSync(resolve(import.meta.dirname, 'test.json'),
                  '{"hello": "world"}');
    
    // Compile a script that loads test.mjs and then test.json
    // as if the script is placed in the same directory.
    const script = new Script(
      `(async function() {
        const { filename } = await import('./test.mjs');
        return import(filename, { with: { type: 'json' } })
      })();`,
      {
        filename: resolve(import.meta.dirname, 'test-with-default.js'),
        importModuleDynamically: constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER,
      });
    
    // { default: { hello: 'world' } }
    script.runInThisContext().then(console.log);const { Script, constants } = require('node:vm');
    const { resolve } = require('node:path');
    const { writeFileSync } = require('node:fs');
    
    // Write test.js and test.txt to the directory where the current script
    // being run is located.
    writeFileSync(resolve(__dirname, 'test.mjs'),
                  'export const filename = "./test.json";');
    writeFileSync(resolve(__dirname, 'test.json'),
                  '{"hello": "world"}');
    
    // Compile a script that loads test.mjs and then test.json
    // as if the script is placed in the same directory.
    const script = new Script(
      `(async function() {
        const { filename } = await import('./test.mjs');
        return import(filename, { with: { type: 'json' } })
      })();`,
      {
        filename: resolve(__dirname, 'test-with-default.js'),
        importModuleDynamically: constants.USE_MAIN_CONTEXT_DEFAULT_LOADER,
      });
    
    // { default: { hello: 'world' } }
    script.runInThisContext().then(console.log);copy

There are a few caveats with loading user modules using the default loader
from the main context:

  1. The module being resolved would be relative to the `filename` option passed to `vm.Script` or `vm.compileFunction()`. The resolution can work with a `filename` that's either an absolute path or a URL string. If `filename` is a string that's neither an absolute path or a URL, or if it's undefined, the resolution will be relative to the current working directory of the process. In the case of `vm.createContext()`, the resolution is always relative to the current working directory since this option is only used when there isn't a referrer script or module.
  2. For any given `filename` that resolves to a specific path, once the process manages to load a particular module from that path, the result may be cached, and subsequent load of the same module from the same path would return the same thing. If the `filename` is a URL string, the cache would not be hit if it has different search parameters. For `filename`s that are not URL strings, there is currently no way to bypass the caching behavior.

#### When `importModuleDynamically` is a function#

When `importModuleDynamically` is a function, it will be invoked when
`import()` is called in the compiled code for users to customize how the
requested module should be compiled and evaluated. Currently, the Node.js
instance must be launched with the `--experimental-vm-modules` flag for this
option to work. If the flag isn't set, this callback will be ignored. If the
code evaluated actually calls to `import()`, the result will reject with
`ERR_VM_DYNAMIC_IMPORT_CALLBACK_MISSING_FLAG`.

The callback `importModuleDynamically(specifier, referrer, importAttributes)`
has the following signature:

  * `specifier` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) specifier passed to `import()`
  * `referrer` <vm.Script> | [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) | <vm.SourceTextModule> | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The referrer is the compiled `vm.Script` for `new vm.Script`, `vm.runInThisContext`, `vm.runInContext` and `vm.runInNewContext`. It's the compiled `Function` for `vm.compileFunction`, the compiled `vm.SourceTextModule` for `new vm.SourceTextModule`, and the context `Object` for `vm.createContext()`.
  * `importAttributes` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The `"with"` value passed to the [`optionsExpression`](https://tc39.es/proposal-import-attributes/#sec-evaluate-import-call) optional parameter, or an empty object if no value was provided.
  * Returns: [<Module Namespace Object>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-module-namespace-exotic-objects) | <vm.Module> Returning a `vm.Module` is recommended in order to take advantage of error tracking, and to avoid issues with namespaces that contain `then` function exports.

    
    
    // This script must be run with --experimental-vm-modules.
    import { Script, SyntheticModule } from 'node:vm';
    
    const script = new Script('import("foo.json", { with: { type: "json" } })', {
      async importModuleDynamically(specifier, referrer, importAttributes) {
        console.log(specifier);  // 'foo.json'
        console.log(referrer);   // The compiled script
        console.log(importAttributes);  // { type: 'json' }
        const m = new SyntheticModule(['bar'], () => { });
        await m.link(() => { });
        m.setExport('bar', { hello: 'world' });
        return m;
      },
    });
    const result = await script.runInThisContext();
    console.log(result);  //  { bar: { hello: 'world' } }// This script must be run with --experimental-vm-modules.
    const { Script, SyntheticModule } = require('node:vm');
    
    (async function main() {
      const script = new Script('import("foo.json", { with: { type: "json" } })', {
        async importModuleDynamically(specifier, referrer, importAttributes) {
          console.log(specifier);  // 'foo.json'
          console.log(referrer);   // The compiled script
          console.log(importAttributes);  // { type: 'json' }
          const m = new SyntheticModule(['bar'], () => { });
          await m.link(() => { });
          m.setExport('bar', { hello: 'world' });
          return m;
        },
      });
      const result = await script.runInThisContext();
      console.log(result);  //  { bar: { hello: 'world' } }
    })();copy

## WebAssembly System Interface (WASI)#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

**The`node:wasi` module does not currently provide the comprehensive file
system security properties provided by some WASI runtimes. Full support for
secure file system sandboxing may or may not be implemented in future. In the
mean time, do not rely on it to run untrusted code. **

**Source Code:**
[lib/wasi.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/wasi.js)

The WASI API provides an implementation of the [WebAssembly System
Interface](https://wasi.dev/) specification. WASI gives WebAssembly
applications access to the underlying operating system via a collection of
POSIX-like functions.

    
    
    import { readFile } from 'node:fs/promises';
    import { WASI } from 'node:wasi';
    import { argv, env } from 'node:process';
    
    const wasi = new WASI({
      version: 'preview1',
      args: argv,
      env,
      preopens: {
        '/local': '/some/real/path/that/wasm/can/access',
      },
    });
    
    const wasm = await WebAssembly.compile(
      await readFile(new URL('./demo.wasm', import.meta.url)),
    );
    const instance = await WebAssembly.instantiate(wasm, wasi.getImportObject());
    
    wasi.start(instance);'use strict';
    const { readFile } = require('node:fs/promises');
    const { WASI } = require('node:wasi');
    const { argv, env } = require('node:process');
    const { join } = require('node:path');
    
    const wasi = new WASI({
      version: 'preview1',
      args: argv,
      env,
      preopens: {
        '/local': '/some/real/path/that/wasm/can/access',
      },
    });
    
    (async () => {
      const wasm = await WebAssembly.compile(
        await readFile(join(__dirname, 'demo.wasm')),
      );
      const instance = await WebAssembly.instantiate(wasm, wasi.getImportObject());
    
      wasi.start(instance);
    })();copy

To run the above example, create a new WebAssembly text format file named
`demo.wat`:

    
    
    (module
        ;; Import the required fd_write WASI function which will write the given io vectors to stdout
        ;; The function signature for fd_write is:
        ;; (File Descriptor, *iovs, iovs_len, nwritten) -> Returns number of bytes written
        (import "wasi_snapshot_preview1" "fd_write" (func $fd_write (param i32 i32 i32 i32) (result i32)))
    
        (memory 1)
        (export "memory" (memory 0))
    
        ;; Write 'hello world\n' to memory at an offset of 8 bytes
        ;; Note the trailing newline which is required for the text to appear
        (data (i32.const 8) "hello world\n")
    
        (func $main (export "_start")
            ;; Creating a new io vector within linear memory
            (i32.store (i32.const 0) (i32.const 8))  ;; iov.iov_base - This is a pointer to the start of the 'hello world\n' string
            (i32.store (i32.const 4) (i32.const 12))  ;; iov.iov_len - The length of the 'hello world\n' string
    
            (call $fd_write
                (i32.const 1) ;; file_descriptor - 1 for stdout
                (i32.const 0) ;; *iovs - The pointer to the iov array, which is stored at memory location 0
                (i32.const 1) ;; iovs_len - We're printing 1 string stored in an iov - so one.
                (i32.const 20) ;; nwritten - A place in memory to store the number of bytes written
            )
            drop ;; Discard the number of bytes written from the top of the stack
        )
    ) copy

Use [wabt](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wabt) to compile `.wat` to `.wasm`

    
    
    wat2wasm demo.wat copy

### Security#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.2.0, v20.11.0 | Clarify WASI security properties.  
v21.2.0, v20.11.0 | Added in: v21.2.0, v20.11.0  
  
WASI provides a capabilities-based model through which applications are
provided their own custom `env`, `preopens`, `stdin`, `stdout`, `stderr`, and
`exit` capabilities.

**The current Node.js threat model does not provide secure sandboxing as is
present in some WASI runtimes.**

While the capability features are supported, they do not form a security model
in Node.js. For example, the file system sandboxing can be escaped with
various techniques. The project is exploring whether these security guarantees
could be added in future.

### Class: `WASI`#

Added in: v13.3.0, v12.16.0

The `WASI` class provides the WASI system call API and additional convenience
methods for working with WASI-based applications. Each `WASI` instance
represents a distinct environment.

#### `new WASI([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v20.1.0 | default value of returnOnExit changed to true.  
v20.0.0 | The version option is now required and has no default value.  
v19.8.0 | version field added to options.  
v13.3.0, v12.16.0 | Added in: v13.3.0, v12.16.0  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `args` [<Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array) An array of strings that the WebAssembly application will see as command-line arguments. The first argument is the virtual path to the WASI command itself. **Default:** `[]`.
    * `env` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An object similar to `process.env` that the WebAssembly application will see as its environment. **Default:** `{}`.
    * `preopens` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) This object represents the WebAssembly application's local directory structure. The string keys of `preopens` are treated as directories within the file system. The corresponding values in `preopens` are the real paths to those directories on the host machine.
    * `returnOnExit` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) By default, when WASI applications call `__wasi_proc_exit()` `wasi.start()` will return with the exit code specified rather than terminating the process. Setting this option to `false` will cause the Node.js process to exit with the specified exit code instead. **Default:** `true`.
    * `stdin` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The file descriptor used as standard input in the WebAssembly application. **Default:** `0`.
    * `stdout` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The file descriptor used as standard output in the WebAssembly application. **Default:** `1`.
    * `stderr` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The file descriptor used as standard error in the WebAssembly application. **Default:** `2`.
    * `version` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) The version of WASI requested. Currently the only supported versions are `unstable` and `preview1`. This option is mandatory.

#### `wasi.getImportObject()`#

Added in: v19.8.0

Return an import object that can be passed to `WebAssembly.instantiate()` if
no other WASM imports are needed beyond those provided by WASI.

If version `unstable` was passed into the constructor it will return:

    
    
    { wasi_unstable: wasi.wasiImport } copy

If version `preview1` was passed into the constructor or no version was
specified it will return:

    
    
    { wasi_snapshot_preview1: wasi.wasiImport } copy

#### `wasi.start(instance)`#

Added in: v13.3.0, v12.16.0

  * `instance` [<WebAssembly.Instance>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WebAssembly/Instance)

Attempt to begin execution of `instance` as a WASI command by invoking its
`_start()` export. If `instance` does not contain a `_start()` export, or if
`instance` contains an `_initialize()` export, then an exception is thrown.

`start()` requires that `instance` exports a
[`WebAssembly.Memory`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WebAssembly/Memory) named
`memory`. If `instance` does not have a `memory` export an exception is
thrown.

If `start()` is called more than once, an exception is thrown.

#### `wasi.initialize(instance)`#

Added in: v14.6.0, v12.19.0

  * `instance` [<WebAssembly.Instance>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WebAssembly/Instance)

Attempt to initialize `instance` as a WASI reactor by invoking its
`_initialize()` export, if it is present. If `instance` contains a `_start()`
export, then an exception is thrown.

`initialize()` requires that `instance` exports a
[`WebAssembly.Memory`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WebAssembly/Memory) named
`memory`. If `instance` does not have a `memory` export an exception is
thrown.

If `initialize()` is called more than once, an exception is thrown.

#### `wasi.wasiImport`#

Added in: v13.3.0, v12.16.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

`wasiImport` is an object that implements the WASI system call API. This
object should be passed as the `wasi_snapshot_preview1` import during the
instantiation of a [`WebAssembly.Instance`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WebAssembly/Instance).

## Web Crypto API#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v23.5.0 | Algorithms `Ed25519` and `X25519` are now stable.  
v19.0.0 | No longer experimental except for the `Ed25519`, `Ed448`, `X25519`, and `X448` algorithms.  
v20.0.0, v18.17.0 | Arguments are now coerced and validated as per their WebIDL definitions like in other Web Crypto API implementations.  
v18.4.0, v16.17.0 | Removed proprietary `'node.keyObject'` import/export format.  
v18.4.0, v16.17.0 | Removed proprietary `'NODE-DSA'`, `'NODE-DH'`, and `'NODE-SCRYPT'` algorithms.  
v18.4.0, v16.17.0 | Added `'Ed25519'`, `'Ed448'`, `'X25519'`, and `'X448'` algorithms.  
v18.4.0, v16.17.0 | Removed proprietary `'NODE-ED25519'` and `'NODE-ED448'` algorithms.  
v18.4.0, v16.17.0 | Removed proprietary `'NODE-X25519'` and `'NODE-X448'` named curves from the `'ECDH'` algorithm.  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

Node.js provides an implementation of the standard [Web Crypto
API](https://www.w3.org/TR/WebCryptoAPI/).

Use `globalThis.crypto` or `require('node:crypto').webcrypto` to access this
module.

    
    
    const { subtle } = globalThis.crypto;
    
    (async function() {
    
      const key = await subtle.generateKey({
        name: 'HMAC',
        hash: 'SHA-256',
        length: 256,
      }, true, ['sign', 'verify']);
    
      const enc = new TextEncoder();
      const message = enc.encode('I love cupcakes');
    
      const digest = await subtle.sign({
        name: 'HMAC',
      }, key, message);
    
    })(); copy

### Examples#

#### Generating keys#

The <SubtleCrypto> class can be used to generate symmetric (secret) keys or
asymmetric key pairs (public key and private key).

##### AES keys#

    
    
    const { subtle } = globalThis.crypto;
    
    async function generateAesKey(length = 256) {
      const key = await subtle.generateKey({
        name: 'AES-CBC',
        length,
      }, true, ['encrypt', 'decrypt']);
    
      return key;
    } copy

##### ECDSA key pairs#

    
    
    const { subtle } = globalThis.crypto;
    
    async function generateEcKey(namedCurve = 'P-521') {
      const {
        publicKey,
        privateKey,
      } = await subtle.generateKey({
        name: 'ECDSA',
        namedCurve,
      }, true, ['sign', 'verify']);
    
      return { publicKey, privateKey };
    } copy

##### Ed25519/X25519 key pairs#

    
    
    const { subtle } = globalThis.crypto;
    
    async function generateEd25519Key() {
      return subtle.generateKey({
        name: 'Ed25519',
      }, true, ['sign', 'verify']);
    }
    
    async function generateX25519Key() {
      return subtle.generateKey({
        name: 'X25519',
      }, true, ['deriveKey']);
    } copy

##### HMAC keys#

    
    
    const { subtle } = globalThis.crypto;
    
    async function generateHmacKey(hash = 'SHA-256') {
      const key = await subtle.generateKey({
        name: 'HMAC',
        hash,
      }, true, ['sign', 'verify']);
    
      return key;
    } copy

##### RSA key pairs#

    
    
    const { subtle } = globalThis.crypto;
    const publicExponent = new Uint8Array([1, 0, 1]);
    
    async function generateRsaKey(modulusLength = 2048, hash = 'SHA-256') {
      const {
        publicKey,
        privateKey,
      } = await subtle.generateKey({
        name: 'RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5',
        modulusLength,
        publicExponent,
        hash,
      }, true, ['sign', 'verify']);
    
      return { publicKey, privateKey };
    } copy

#### Encryption and decryption#

    
    
    const crypto = globalThis.crypto;
    
    async function aesEncrypt(plaintext) {
      const ec = new TextEncoder();
      const key = await generateAesKey();
      const iv = crypto.getRandomValues(new Uint8Array(16));
    
      const ciphertext = await crypto.subtle.encrypt({
        name: 'AES-CBC',
        iv,
      }, key, ec.encode(plaintext));
    
      return {
        key,
        iv,
        ciphertext,
      };
    }
    
    async function aesDecrypt(ciphertext, key, iv) {
      const dec = new TextDecoder();
      const plaintext = await crypto.subtle.decrypt({
        name: 'AES-CBC',
        iv,
      }, key, ciphertext);
    
      return dec.decode(plaintext);
    } copy

#### Exporting and importing keys#

    
    
    const { subtle } = globalThis.crypto;
    
    async function generateAndExportHmacKey(format = 'jwk', hash = 'SHA-512') {
      const key = await subtle.generateKey({
        name: 'HMAC',
        hash,
      }, true, ['sign', 'verify']);
    
      return subtle.exportKey(format, key);
    }
    
    async function importHmacKey(keyData, format = 'jwk', hash = 'SHA-512') {
      const key = await subtle.importKey(format, keyData, {
        name: 'HMAC',
        hash,
      }, true, ['sign', 'verify']);
    
      return key;
    } copy

#### Wrapping and unwrapping keys#

    
    
    const { subtle } = globalThis.crypto;
    
    async function generateAndWrapHmacKey(format = 'jwk', hash = 'SHA-512') {
      const [
        key,
        wrappingKey,
      ] = await Promise.all([
        subtle.generateKey({
          name: 'HMAC', hash,
        }, true, ['sign', 'verify']),
        subtle.generateKey({
          name: 'AES-KW',
          length: 256,
        }, true, ['wrapKey', 'unwrapKey']),
      ]);
    
      const wrappedKey = await subtle.wrapKey(format, key, wrappingKey, 'AES-KW');
    
      return { wrappedKey, wrappingKey };
    }
    
    async function unwrapHmacKey(
      wrappedKey,
      wrappingKey,
      format = 'jwk',
      hash = 'SHA-512') {
    
      const key = await subtle.unwrapKey(
        format,
        wrappedKey,
        wrappingKey,
        'AES-KW',
        { name: 'HMAC', hash },
        true,
        ['sign', 'verify']);
    
      return key;
    } copy

#### Sign and verify#

    
    
    const { subtle } = globalThis.crypto;
    
    async function sign(key, data) {
      const ec = new TextEncoder();
      const signature =
        await subtle.sign('RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5', key, ec.encode(data));
      return signature;
    }
    
    async function verify(key, signature, data) {
      const ec = new TextEncoder();
      const verified =
        await subtle.verify(
          'RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5',
          key,
          signature,
          ec.encode(data));
      return verified;
    } copy

#### Deriving bits and keys#

    
    
    const { subtle } = globalThis.crypto;
    
    async function pbkdf2(pass, salt, iterations = 1000, length = 256) {
      const ec = new TextEncoder();
      const key = await subtle.importKey(
        'raw',
        ec.encode(pass),
        'PBKDF2',
        false,
        ['deriveBits']);
      const bits = await subtle.deriveBits({
        name: 'PBKDF2',
        hash: 'SHA-512',
        salt: ec.encode(salt),
        iterations,
      }, key, length);
      return bits;
    }
    
    async function pbkdf2Key(pass, salt, iterations = 1000, length = 256) {
      const ec = new TextEncoder();
      const keyMaterial = await subtle.importKey(
        'raw',
        ec.encode(pass),
        'PBKDF2',
        false,
        ['deriveKey']);
      const key = await subtle.deriveKey({
        name: 'PBKDF2',
        hash: 'SHA-512',
        salt: ec.encode(salt),
        iterations,
      }, keyMaterial, {
        name: 'AES-GCM',
        length,
      }, true, ['encrypt', 'decrypt']);
      return key;
    } copy

#### Digest#

    
    
    const { subtle } = globalThis.crypto;
    
    async function digest(data, algorithm = 'SHA-512') {
      const ec = new TextEncoder();
      const digest = await subtle.digest(algorithm, ec.encode(data));
      return digest;
    } copy

### Algorithm matrix#

The table details the algorithms supported by the Node.js Web Crypto API
implementation and the APIs supported for each:

Algorithm| `generateKey`| `exportKey`| `importKey`| `encrypt`| `decrypt`|
`wrapKey`| `unwrapKey`| `deriveBits`| `deriveKey`| `sign`| `verify`| `digest`  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
`'RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| | | | | | | ✔| ✔|   
`'RSA-PSS'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| | | | | | | ✔| ✔|   
`'RSA-OAEP'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔| | | | |   
`'ECDSA'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| | | | | | | ✔| ✔|   
`'Ed25519'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| | | | | | | ✔| ✔|   
`'Ed448'` 1| ✔| ✔| ✔| | | | | | | ✔| ✔|   
`'ECDH'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| | | | | ✔| ✔| | |   
`'X25519'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| | | | | ✔| ✔| | |   
`'X448'` 1| ✔| ✔| ✔| | | | | ✔| ✔| | |   
`'AES-CTR'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔| | | | |   
`'AES-CBC'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔| | | | |   
`'AES-GCM'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔| | | | |   
`'AES-KW'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| | | ✔| ✔| | | | |   
`'HMAC'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| | | | | | | ✔| ✔|   
`'HKDF'`| | ✔| ✔| | | | | ✔| ✔| | |   
`'PBKDF2'`| | ✔| ✔| | | | | ✔| ✔| | |   
`'SHA-1'`| | | | | | | | | | | | ✔  
`'SHA-256'`| | | | | | | | | | | | ✔  
`'SHA-384'`| | | | | | | | | | | | ✔  
`'SHA-512'`| | | | | | | | | | | | ✔  
  
### Class: `Crypto`#

Added in: v15.0.0

`globalThis.crypto` is an instance of the `Crypto` class. `Crypto` is a
singleton that provides access to the remainder of the crypto API.

#### `crypto.subtle`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: <SubtleCrypto>

Provides access to the `SubtleCrypto` API.

#### `crypto.getRandomValues(typedArray)`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * `typedArray` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray)
  * Returns: <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray)

Generates cryptographically strong random values. The given `typedArray` is
filled with random values, and a reference to `typedArray` is returned.

The given `typedArray` must be an integer-based instance of
[<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray), i.e.
`Float32Array` and `Float64Array` are not accepted.

An error will be thrown if the given `typedArray` is larger than 65,536 bytes.

#### `crypto.randomUUID()`#

Added in: v16.7.0

  * Returns: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

Generates a random [RFC 4122](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4122.txt)
version 4 UUID. The UUID is generated using a cryptographic pseudorandom
number generator.

### Class: `CryptoKey`#

Added in: v15.0.0

#### `cryptoKey.algorithm`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: <AesKeyGenParams> | <RsaHashedKeyGenParams> | <EcKeyGenParams> | <HmacKeyGenParams>

An object detailing the algorithm for which the key can be used along with
additional algorithm-specific parameters.

Read-only.

#### `cryptoKey.extractable`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

When `true`, the <CryptoKey> can be extracted using either
`subtleCrypto.exportKey()` or `subtleCrypto.wrapKey()`.

Read-only.

#### `cryptoKey.type`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) One of `'secret'`, `'private'`, or `'public'`.

A string identifying whether the key is a symmetric (`'secret'`) or asymmetric
(`'private'` or `'public'`) key.

#### `cryptoKey.usages`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

An array of strings identifying the operations for which the key may be used.

The possible usages are:

  * `'encrypt'` \- The key may be used to encrypt data.
  * `'decrypt'` \- The key may be used to decrypt data.
  * `'sign'` \- The key may be used to generate digital signatures.
  * `'verify'` \- The key may be used to verify digital signatures.
  * `'deriveKey'` \- The key may be used to derive a new key.
  * `'deriveBits'` \- The key may be used to derive bits.
  * `'wrapKey'` \- The key may be used to wrap another key.
  * `'unwrapKey'` \- The key may be used to unwrap another key.

Valid key usages depend on the key algorithm (identified by
`cryptokey.algorithm.name`).

Supported Key Algorithm| `'encrypt'`| `'decrypt'`| `'sign'`| `'verify'`|
`'deriveKey'`| `'deriveBits'`| `'wrapKey'`| `'unwrapKey'`  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
`'AES-CBC'`| ✔| ✔| | | | | ✔| ✔  
`'AES-CTR'`| ✔| ✔| | | | | ✔| ✔  
`'AES-GCM'`| ✔| ✔| | | | | ✔| ✔  
`'AES-KW'`| | | | | | | ✔| ✔  
`'ECDH'`| | | | | ✔| ✔| |   
`'X25519'`| | | | | ✔| ✔| |   
`'X448'` 1| | | | | ✔| ✔| |   
`'ECDSA'`| | | ✔| ✔| | | |   
`'Ed25519'`| | | ✔| ✔| | | |   
`'Ed448'` 1| | | ✔| ✔| | | |   
`'HDKF'`| | | | | ✔| ✔| |   
`'HMAC'`| | | ✔| ✔| | | |   
`'PBKDF2'`| | | | | ✔| ✔| |   
`'RSA-OAEP'`| ✔| ✔| | | | | ✔| ✔  
`'RSA-PSS'`| | | ✔| ✔| | | |   
`'RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5'`| | | ✔| ✔| | | |   
  
### Class: `CryptoKeyPair`#

Added in: v15.0.0

The `CryptoKeyPair` is a simple dictionary object with `publicKey` and
`privateKey` properties, representing an asymmetric key pair.

#### `cryptoKeyPair.privateKey`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: <CryptoKey> A <CryptoKey> whose `type` will be `'private'`.

#### `cryptoKeyPair.publicKey`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: <CryptoKey> A <CryptoKey> whose `type` will be `'public'`.

### Class: `SubtleCrypto`#

Added in: v15.0.0

#### `subtle.decrypt(algorithm, key, data)`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * `algorithm`: <RsaOaepParams> | <AesCtrParams> | <AesCbcParams> | <AesGcmParams>
  * `key`: <CryptoKey>
  * `data`: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer>
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with an [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) upon success.

Using the method and parameters specified in `algorithm` and the keying
material provided by `key`, `subtle.decrypt()` attempts to decipher the
provided `data`. If successful, the returned promise will be resolved with an
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) containing the
plaintext result.

The algorithms currently supported include:

  * `'RSA-OAEP'`
  * `'AES-CTR'`
  * `'AES-CBC'`
  * `'AES-GCM'`

#### `subtle.deriveBits(algorithm, baseKey[, length])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v22.5.0, v20.17.0 | The length parameter is now optional for `'ECDH'`, `'X25519'`, and `'X448'`.  
v18.4.0, v16.17.0 | Added `'X25519'`, and `'X448'` algorithms.  
v15.0.0 | Added in: v15.0.0  
  
  * `algorithm`: <EcdhKeyDeriveParams> | <HkdfParams> | <Pbkdf2Params>
  * `baseKey`: <CryptoKey>
  * `length`: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) | [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) **Default:** `null`
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with an [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) upon success.

Using the method and parameters specified in `algorithm` and the keying
material provided by `baseKey`, `subtle.deriveBits()` attempts to generate
`length` bits.

When `length` is not provided or `null` the maximum number of bits for a given
algorithm is generated. This is allowed for the `'ECDH'`, `'X25519'`, and
`'X448'` algorithms, for other algorithms `length` is required to be a number.

If successful, the returned promise will be resolved with an
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) containing the
generated data.

The algorithms currently supported include:

  * `'ECDH'`
  * `'X25519'`
  * `'X448'` 1
  * `'HKDF'`
  * `'PBKDF2'`

#### `subtle.deriveKey(algorithm, baseKey, derivedKeyAlgorithm, extractable,
keyUsages)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.4.0, v16.17.0 | Added `'X25519'`, and `'X448'` algorithms.  
v15.0.0 | Added in: v15.0.0  
  
  * `algorithm`: <EcdhKeyDeriveParams> | <HkdfParams> | <Pbkdf2Params>
  * `baseKey`: <CryptoKey>
  * `derivedKeyAlgorithm`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <AlgorithmIdentifier> | <HmacImportParams> | <AesDerivedKeyParams>
  * `extractable`: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
  * `keyUsages`: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See Key usages.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with a <CryptoKey> upon success.

Using the method and parameters specified in `algorithm`, and the keying
material provided by `baseKey`, `subtle.deriveKey()` attempts to generate a
new <CryptoKey> based on the method and parameters in `derivedKeyAlgorithm`.

Calling `subtle.deriveKey()` is equivalent to calling `subtle.deriveBits()` to
generate raw keying material, then passing the result into the
`subtle.importKey()` method using the `deriveKeyAlgorithm`, `extractable`, and
`keyUsages` parameters as input.

The algorithms currently supported include:

  * `'ECDH'`
  * `'X25519'`
  * `'X448'` 1
  * `'HKDF'`
  * `'PBKDF2'`

#### `subtle.digest(algorithm, data)`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * `algorithm`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <AlgorithmIdentifier>
  * `data`: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer>
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with an [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) upon success.

Using the method identified by `algorithm`, `subtle.digest()` attempts to
generate a digest of `data`. If successful, the returned promise is resolved
with an [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) containing the
computed digest.

If `algorithm` is provided as a [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type), it must be one of:

  * `'SHA-1'`
  * `'SHA-256'`
  * `'SHA-384'`
  * `'SHA-512'`

If `algorithm` is provided as an [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object), it must have a `name`
property whose value is one of the above.

#### `subtle.encrypt(algorithm, key, data)`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * `algorithm`: <RsaOaepParams> | <AesCtrParams> | <AesCbcParams> | <AesGcmParams>
  * `key`: <CryptoKey>
  * `data`: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer>
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with an [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) upon success.

Using the method and parameters specified by `algorithm` and the keying
material provided by `key`, `subtle.encrypt()` attempts to encipher `data`. If
successful, the returned promise is resolved with an
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) containing the
encrypted result.

The algorithms currently supported include:

  * `'RSA-OAEP'`
  * `'AES-CTR'`
  * `'AES-CBC'`
  * `'AES-GCM'`

#### `subtle.exportKey(format, key)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.4.0, v16.17.0 | Added `'Ed25519'`, `'Ed448'`, `'X25519'`, and `'X448'` algorithms.  
v15.9.0 | Removed `'NODE-DSA'` JWK export.  
v15.0.0 | Added in: v15.0.0  
  
  * `format`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be one of `'raw'`, `'pkcs8'`, `'spki'`, or `'jwk'`.
  * `key`: <CryptoKey>
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with an [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) upon success.

Exports the given key into the specified format, if supported.

If the <CryptoKey> is not extractable, the returned promise will reject.

When `format` is either `'pkcs8'` or `'spki'` and the export is successful,
the returned promise will be resolved with an
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) containing the
exported key data.

When `format` is `'jwk'` and the export is successful, the returned promise
will be resolved with a JavaScript object conforming to the [JSON Web
Key](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7517) specification.

Supported Key Algorithm| `'spki'`| `'pkcs8'`| `'jwk'`| `'raw'`  
---|---|---|---|---  
`'AES-CBC'`| | | ✔| ✔  
`'AES-CTR'`| | | ✔| ✔  
`'AES-GCM'`| | | ✔| ✔  
`'AES-KW'`| | | ✔| ✔  
`'ECDH'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔  
`'ECDSA'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔  
`'Ed25519'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔  
`'Ed448'` 1| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔  
`'HMAC'`| | | ✔| ✔  
`'RSA-OAEP'`| ✔| ✔| ✔|  
`'RSA-PSS'`| ✔| ✔| ✔|  
`'RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5'`| ✔| ✔| ✔|  
  
#### `subtle.generateKey(algorithm, extractable, keyUsages)`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * `algorithm`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <AlgorithmIdentifier> | <RsaHashedKeyGenParams> | <EcKeyGenParams> | <HmacKeyGenParams> | <AesKeyGenParams>

  * `extractable`: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
  * `keyUsages`: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See Key usages.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with a <CryptoKey> | <CryptoKeyPair> upon success.

Using the method and parameters provided in `algorithm`,
`subtle.generateKey()` attempts to generate new keying material. Depending the
method used, the method may generate either a single <CryptoKey> or a
<CryptoKeyPair>.

The <CryptoKeyPair> (public and private key) generating algorithms supported
include:

  * `'RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5'`
  * `'RSA-PSS'`
  * `'RSA-OAEP'`
  * `'ECDSA'`
  * `'Ed25519'`
  * `'Ed448'` 1
  * `'ECDH'`
  * `'X25519'`
  * `'X448'` 1

The <CryptoKey> (secret key) generating algorithms supported include:

  * `'HMAC'`
  * `'AES-CTR'`
  * `'AES-CBC'`
  * `'AES-GCM'`
  * `'AES-KW'`

#### `subtle.importKey(format, keyData, algorithm, extractable, keyUsages)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.4.0, v16.17.0 | Added `'Ed25519'`, `'Ed448'`, `'X25519'`, and `'X448'` algorithms.  
v15.9.0 | Removed `'NODE-DSA'` JWK import.  
v15.0.0 | Added in: v15.0.0  
  
  * `format`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be one of `'raw'`, `'pkcs8'`, `'spki'`, or `'jwk'`.
  * `keyData`: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer> | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

  * `algorithm`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <AlgorithmIdentifier> | <RsaHashedImportParams> | <EcKeyImportParams> | <HmacImportParams>

  * `extractable`: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
  * `keyUsages`: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See Key usages.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with a <CryptoKey> upon success.

The `subtle.importKey()` method attempts to interpret the provided `keyData`
as the given `format` to create a <CryptoKey> instance using the provided
`algorithm`, `extractable`, and `keyUsages` arguments. If the import is
successful, the returned promise will be resolved with the created
<CryptoKey>.

If importing a `'PBKDF2'` key, `extractable` must be `false`.

The algorithms currently supported include:

Supported Key Algorithm| `'spki'`| `'pkcs8'`| `'jwk'`| `'raw'`  
---|---|---|---|---  
`'AES-CBC'`| | | ✔| ✔  
`'AES-CTR'`| | | ✔| ✔  
`'AES-GCM'`| | | ✔| ✔  
`'AES-KW'`| | | ✔| ✔  
`'ECDH'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔  
`'X25519'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔  
`'X448'` 1| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔  
`'ECDSA'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔  
`'Ed25519'`| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔  
`'Ed448'` 1| ✔| ✔| ✔| ✔  
`'HDKF'`| | | | ✔  
`'HMAC'`| | | ✔| ✔  
`'PBKDF2'`| | | | ✔  
`'RSA-OAEP'`| ✔| ✔| ✔|  
`'RSA-PSS'`| ✔| ✔| ✔|  
`'RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5'`| ✔| ✔| ✔|  
  
#### `subtle.sign(algorithm, key, data)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.4.0, v16.17.0 | Added `'Ed25519'`, and `'Ed448'` algorithms.  
v15.0.0 | Added in: v15.0.0  
  
  * `algorithm`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <AlgorithmIdentifier> | <RsaPssParams> | <EcdsaParams> | <Ed448Params>
  * `key`: <CryptoKey>
  * `data`: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer>
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with an [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) upon success.

Using the method and parameters given by `algorithm` and the keying material
provided by `key`, `subtle.sign()` attempts to generate a cryptographic
signature of `data`. If successful, the returned promise is resolved with an
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) containing the
generated signature.

The algorithms currently supported include:

  * `'RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5'`
  * `'RSA-PSS'`
  * `'ECDSA'`
  * `'Ed25519'`
  * `'Ed448'` 1
  * `'HMAC'`

#### `subtle.unwrapKey(format, wrappedKey, unwrappingKey, unwrapAlgo,
unwrappedKeyAlgo, extractable, keyUsages)`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * `format`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be one of `'raw'`, `'pkcs8'`, `'spki'`, or `'jwk'`.
  * `wrappedKey`: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer>
  * `unwrappingKey`: <CryptoKey>

  * `unwrapAlgo`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <AlgorithmIdentifier> | <RsaOaepParams> | <AesCtrParams> | <AesCbcParams> | <AesGcmParams>
  * `unwrappedKeyAlgo`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <AlgorithmIdentifier> | <RsaHashedImportParams> | <EcKeyImportParams> | <HmacImportParams>

  * `extractable`: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)
  * `keyUsages`: [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) See Key usages.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with a <CryptoKey> upon success.

In cryptography, "wrapping a key" refers to exporting and then encrypting the
keying material. The `subtle.unwrapKey()` method attempts to decrypt a wrapped
key and create a <CryptoKey> instance. It is equivalent to calling
`subtle.decrypt()` first on the encrypted key data (using the `wrappedKey`,
`unwrapAlgo`, and `unwrappingKey` arguments as input) then passing the results
in to the `subtle.importKey()` method using the `unwrappedKeyAlgo`,
`extractable`, and `keyUsages` arguments as inputs. If successful, the
returned promise is resolved with a <CryptoKey> object.

The wrapping algorithms currently supported include:

  * `'RSA-OAEP'`
  * `'AES-CTR'`
  * `'AES-CBC'`
  * `'AES-GCM'`
  * `'AES-KW'`

The unwrapped key algorithms supported include:

  * `'RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5'`
  * `'RSA-PSS'`
  * `'RSA-OAEP'`
  * `'ECDSA'`
  * `'Ed25519'`
  * `'Ed448'` 1
  * `'ECDH'`
  * `'X25519'`
  * `'X448'` 1
  * `'HMAC'`
  * `'AES-CTR'`
  * `'AES-CBC'`
  * `'AES-GCM'`
  * `'AES-KW'`

#### `subtle.verify(algorithm, key, signature, data)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.4.0, v16.17.0 | Added `'Ed25519'`, and `'Ed448'` algorithms.  
v15.0.0 | Added in: v15.0.0  
  
  * `algorithm`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <AlgorithmIdentifier> | <RsaPssParams> | <EcdsaParams> | <Ed448Params>
  * `key`: <CryptoKey>
  * `signature`: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer>
  * `data`: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer>
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with a [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) upon success.

Using the method and parameters given in `algorithm` and the keying material
provided by `key`, `subtle.verify()` attempts to verify that `signature` is a
valid cryptographic signature of `data`. The returned promise is resolved with
either `true` or `false`.

The algorithms currently supported include:

  * `'RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5'`
  * `'RSA-PSS'`
  * `'ECDSA'`
  * `'Ed25519'`
  * `'Ed448'` 1
  * `'HMAC'`

#### `subtle.wrapKey(format, key, wrappingKey, wrapAlgo)`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * `format`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be one of `'raw'`, `'pkcs8'`, `'spki'`, or `'jwk'`.
  * `key`: <CryptoKey>
  * `wrappingKey`: <CryptoKey>
  * `wrapAlgo`: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <AlgorithmIdentifier> | <RsaOaepParams> | <AesCtrParams> | <AesCbcParams> | <AesGcmParams>
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with an [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) upon success.

In cryptography, "wrapping a key" refers to exporting and then encrypting the
keying material. The `subtle.wrapKey()` method exports the keying material
into the format identified by `format`, then encrypts it using the method and
parameters specified by `wrapAlgo` and the keying material provided by
`wrappingKey`. It is the equivalent to calling `subtle.exportKey()` using
`format` and `key` as the arguments, then passing the result to the
`subtle.encrypt()` method using `wrappingKey` and `wrapAlgo` as inputs. If
successful, the returned promise will be resolved with an
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) containing the
encrypted key data.

The wrapping algorithms currently supported include:

  * `'RSA-OAEP'`
  * `'AES-CTR'`
  * `'AES-CBC'`
  * `'AES-GCM'`
  * `'AES-KW'`

### Algorithm parameters#

The algorithm parameter objects define the methods and parameters used by the
various <SubtleCrypto> methods. While described here as "classes", they are
simple JavaScript dictionary objects.

#### Class: `AlgorithmIdentifier`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `algorithmIdentifier.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

#### Class: `AesDerivedKeyParams`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `aesDerivedKeyParams.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be one of `'AES-CBC'`, `'AES-CTR'`, `'AES-GCM'`, or `'AES-KW'`

##### `aesDerivedKeyParams.length`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The length of the AES key to be derived. This must be either `128`, `192`, or
`256`.

#### Class: `AesCbcParams`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `aesCbcParams.iv`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer>

Provides the initialization vector. It must be exactly 16-bytes in length and
should be unpredictable and cryptographically random.

##### `aesCbcParams.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'AES-CBC'`.

#### Class: `AesCtrParams`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `aesCtrParams.counter`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer>

The initial value of the counter block. This must be exactly 16 bytes long.

The `AES-CTR` method uses the rightmost `length` bits of the block as the
counter and the remaining bits as the nonce.

##### `aesCtrParams.length`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The number of bits in the `aesCtrParams.counter` that are to be used as the counter.

##### `aesCtrParams.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'AES-CTR'`.

#### Class: `AesGcmParams`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `aesGcmParams.additionalData`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer> | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

With the AES-GCM method, the `additionalData` is extra input that is not
encrypted but is included in the authentication of the data. The use of
`additionalData` is optional.

##### `aesGcmParams.iv`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer>

The initialization vector must be unique for every encryption operation using
a given key.

Ideally, this is a deterministic 12-byte value that is computed in such a way
that it is guaranteed to be unique across all invocations that use the same
key. Alternatively, the initialization vector may consist of at least 12
cryptographically random bytes. For more information on constructing
initialization vectors for AES-GCM, refer to Section 8 of [NIST SP
800-38D](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-38d.pdf).

##### `aesGcmParams.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'AES-GCM'`.

##### `aesGcmParams.tagLength`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The size in bits of the generated authentication tag. This values must be one of `32`, `64`, `96`, `104`, `112`, `120`, or `128`. **Default:** `128`.

#### Class: `AesKeyGenParams`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `aesKeyGenParams.length`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The length of the AES key to be generated. This must be either `128`, `192`,
or `256`.

##### `aesKeyGenParams.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be one of `'AES-CBC'`, `'AES-CTR'`, `'AES-GCM'`, or `'AES-KW'`

#### Class: `EcdhKeyDeriveParams`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `ecdhKeyDeriveParams.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'ECDH'`, `'X25519'`, or `'X448'`.

##### `ecdhKeyDeriveParams.public`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: <CryptoKey>

ECDH key derivation operates by taking as input one parties private key and
another parties public key -- using both to generate a common shared secret.
The `ecdhKeyDeriveParams.public` property is set to the other parties public
key.

#### Class: `EcdsaParams`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `ecdsaParams.hash`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

If represented as a [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type), the value must be one of:

  * `'SHA-1'`
  * `'SHA-256'`
  * `'SHA-384'`
  * `'SHA-512'`

If represented as an [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object), the object must have
a `name` property whose value is one of the above listed values.

##### `ecdsaParams.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'ECDSA'`.

#### Class: `EcKeyGenParams`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `ecKeyGenParams.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be one of `'ECDSA'` or `'ECDH'`.

##### `ecKeyGenParams.namedCurve`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be one of `'P-256'`, `'P-384'`, `'P-521'`.

#### Class: `EcKeyImportParams`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `ecKeyImportParams.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be one of `'ECDSA'` or `'ECDH'`.

##### `ecKeyImportParams.namedCurve`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be one of `'P-256'`, `'P-384'`, `'P-521'`.

#### Class: `Ed448Params`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `ed448Params.name`#

Added in: v18.4.0, v16.17.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'Ed448'`.

##### `ed448Params.context`#

Added in: v18.4.0, v16.17.0

  * Type: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer> | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

The `context` member represents the optional context data to associate with
the message. The Node.js Web Crypto API implementation only supports zero-
length context which is equivalent to not providing context at all.

#### Class: `HkdfParams`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `hkdfParams.hash`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

If represented as a [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type), the value must be one of:

  * `'SHA-1'`
  * `'SHA-256'`
  * `'SHA-384'`
  * `'SHA-512'`

If represented as an [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object), the object must have
a `name` property whose value is one of the above listed values.

##### `hkdfParams.info`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer>

Provides application-specific contextual input to the HKDF algorithm. This can
be zero-length but must be provided.

##### `hkdfParams.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'HKDF'`.

##### `hkdfParams.salt`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer>

The salt value significantly improves the strength of the HKDF algorithm. It
should be random or pseudorandom and should be the same length as the output
of the digest function (for instance, if using `'SHA-256'` as the digest, the
salt should be 256-bits of random data).

#### Class: `HmacImportParams`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `hmacImportParams.hash`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

If represented as a [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type), the value must be one of:

  * `'SHA-1'`
  * `'SHA-256'`
  * `'SHA-384'`
  * `'SHA-512'`

If represented as an [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object), the object must have
a `name` property whose value is one of the above listed values.

##### `hmacImportParams.length`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The optional number of bits in the HMAC key. This is optional and should be
omitted for most cases.

##### `hmacImportParams.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'HMAC'`.

#### Class: `HmacKeyGenParams`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `hmacKeyGenParams.hash`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

If represented as a [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type), the value must be one of:

  * `'SHA-1'`
  * `'SHA-256'`
  * `'SHA-384'`
  * `'SHA-512'`

If represented as an [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object), the object must have
a `name` property whose value is one of the above listed values.

##### `hmacKeyGenParams.length`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The number of bits to generate for the HMAC key. If omitted, the length will
be determined by the hash algorithm used. This is optional and should be
omitted for most cases.

##### `hmacKeyGenParams.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'HMAC'`.

#### Class: `Pbkdf2Params`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `pbkdb2Params.hash`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

If represented as a [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type), the value must be one of:

  * `'SHA-1'`
  * `'SHA-256'`
  * `'SHA-384'`
  * `'SHA-512'`

If represented as an [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object), the object must have
a `name` property whose value is one of the above listed values.

##### `pbkdf2Params.iterations`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The number of iterations the PBKDF2 algorithm should make when deriving bits.

##### `pbkdf2Params.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'PBKDF2'`.

##### `pbkdf2Params.salt`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer>

Should be at least 16 random or pseudorandom bytes.

#### Class: `RsaHashedImportParams`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `rsaHashedImportParams.hash`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

If represented as a [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type), the value must be one of:

  * `'SHA-1'`
  * `'SHA-256'`
  * `'SHA-384'`
  * `'SHA-512'`

If represented as an [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object), the object must have
a `name` property whose value is one of the above listed values.

##### `rsaHashedImportParams.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be one of `'RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5'`, `'RSA-PSS'`, or `'RSA-OAEP'`.

#### Class: `RsaHashedKeyGenParams`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `rsaHashedKeyGenParams.hash`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

If represented as a [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type), the value must be one of:

  * `'SHA-1'`
  * `'SHA-256'`
  * `'SHA-384'`
  * `'SHA-512'`

If represented as an [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object), the object must have
a `name` property whose value is one of the above listed values.

##### `rsaHashedKeyGenParams.modulusLength`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The length in bits of the RSA modulus. As a best practice, this should be at
least `2048`.

##### `rsaHashedKeyGenParams.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be one of `'RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5'`, `'RSA-PSS'`, or `'RSA-OAEP'`.

##### `rsaHashedKeyGenParams.publicExponent`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array)

The RSA public exponent. This must be a
[<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) containing a big-
endian, unsigned integer that must fit within 32-bits. The
[<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array) may contain an
arbitrary number of leading zero-bits. The value must be a prime number.
Unless there is reason to use a different value, use `new Uint8Array([1, 0,
1])` (65537) as the public exponent.

#### Class: `RsaOaepParams`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `rsaOaepParams.label`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | <Buffer>

An additional collection of bytes that will not be encrypted, but will be
bound to the generated ciphertext.

The `rsaOaepParams.label` parameter is optional.

##### `rsaOaepParams.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) must be `'RSA-OAEP'`.

#### Class: `RsaPssParams`#

Added in: v15.0.0

##### `rsaPssParams.name`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'RSA-PSS'`.

##### `rsaPssParams.saltLength`#

Added in: v15.0.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The length (in bytes) of the random salt to use.

### Footnotes

  1. An experimental implementation of Ed448 and X448 algorithms from [Secure Curves in the Web Cryptography API](https://wicg.github.io/webcrypto-secure-curves/) as of 21 October 2024 ↩ ↩2 ↩3 ↩4 ↩5 ↩6 ↩7 ↩8 ↩9 ↩10 ↩11 ↩12 ↩13 ↩14 ↩15

## Web Streams API#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0 | No longer experimental.  
v18.0.0 | Use of this API no longer emit a runtime warning.  
v16.5.0 | Added in: v16.5.0  
  
Stability: 2 \- Stable

An implementation of the [WHATWG Streams
Standard](https://streams.spec.whatwg.org/).

### Overview#

The [WHATWG Streams Standard](https://streams.spec.whatwg.org/) (or "web
streams") defines an API for handling streaming data. It is similar to the
Node.js [Streams](stream.html) API but emerged later and has become the
"standard" API for streaming data across many JavaScript environments.

There are three primary types of objects:

  * `ReadableStream` \- Represents a source of streaming data.
  * `WritableStream` \- Represents a destination for streaming data.
  * `TransformStream` \- Represents an algorithm for transforming streaming data.

#### Example `ReadableStream`#

This example creates a simple `ReadableStream` that pushes the current
`performance.now()` timestamp once every second forever. An async iterable is
used to read the data from the stream.

    
    
    import {
      ReadableStream,
    } from 'node:stream/web';
    
    import {
      setInterval as every,
    } from 'node:timers/promises';
    
    import {
      performance,
    } from 'node:perf_hooks';
    
    const SECOND = 1000;
    
    const stream = new ReadableStream({
      async start(controller) {
        for await (const _ of every(SECOND))
          controller.enqueue(performance.now());
      },
    });
    
    for await (const value of stream)
      console.log(value);const {
      ReadableStream,
    } = require('node:stream/web');
    
    const {
      setInterval: every,
    } = require('node:timers/promises');
    
    const {
      performance,
    } = require('node:perf_hooks');
    
    const SECOND = 1000;
    
    const stream = new ReadableStream({
      async start(controller) {
        for await (const _ of every(SECOND))
          controller.enqueue(performance.now());
      },
    });
    
    (async () => {
      for await (const value of stream)
        console.log(value);
    })();copy

### API#

#### Class: `ReadableStream`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | This class is now exposed on the global object.  
v16.5.0 | Added in: v16.5.0  
  
##### `new ReadableStream([underlyingSource [, strategy]])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `underlyingSource` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `start` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A user-defined function that is invoked immediately when the `ReadableStream` is created. 
      * `controller` <ReadableStreamDefaultController> | <ReadableByteStreamController>
      * Returns: `undefined` or a promise fulfilled with `undefined`.
    * `pull` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A user-defined function that is called repeatedly when the `ReadableStream` internal queue is not full. The operation may be sync or async. If async, the function will not be called again until the previously returned promise is fulfilled. 
      * `controller` <ReadableStreamDefaultController> | <ReadableByteStreamController>
      * Returns: A promise fulfilled with `undefined`.
    * `cancel` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A user-defined function that is called when the `ReadableStream` is canceled. 
      * `reason` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
      * Returns: A promise fulfilled with `undefined`.
    * `type` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Must be `'bytes'` or `undefined`.
    * `autoAllocateChunkSize` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Used only when `type` is equal to `'bytes'`. When set to a non-zero value a view buffer is automatically allocated to `ReadableByteStreamController.byobRequest`. When not set one must use stream's internal queues to transfer data via the default reader `ReadableStreamDefaultReader`.
  * `strategy` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The maximum internal queue size before backpressure is applied.
    * `size` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A user-defined function used to identify the size of each chunk of data. 
      * `chunk` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
      * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

##### `readableStream.locked`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) Set to `true` if there is an active reader for this <ReadableStream>.

The `readableStream.locked` property is `false` by default, and is switched to
`true` while there is an active reader consuming the stream's data.

##### `readableStream.cancel([reason])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `reason` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: A promise fulfilled with `undefined` once cancelation has been completed.

##### `readableStream.getReader([options])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `mode` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) `'byob'` or `undefined`
  * Returns: <ReadableStreamDefaultReader> | <ReadableStreamBYOBReader>

    
    
    import { ReadableStream } from 'node:stream/web';
    
    const stream = new ReadableStream();
    
    const reader = stream.getReader();
    
    console.log(await reader.read());const { ReadableStream } = require('node:stream/web');
    
    const stream = new ReadableStream();
    
    const reader = stream.getReader();
    
    reader.read().then(console.log);copy

Causes the `readableStream.locked` to be `true`.

##### `readableStream.pipeThrough(transform[, options])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `transform` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `readable` <ReadableStream> The `ReadableStream` to which `transform.writable` will push the potentially modified data it receives from this `ReadableStream`.
    * `writable` <WritableStream> The `WritableStream` to which this `ReadableStream`'s data will be written.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `preventAbort` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, errors in this `ReadableStream` will not cause `transform.writable` to be aborted.
    * `preventCancel` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, errors in the destination `transform.writable` do not cause this `ReadableStream` to be canceled.
    * `preventClose` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, closing this `ReadableStream` does not cause `transform.writable` to be closed.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Allows the transfer of data to be canceled using an <AbortController>.
  * Returns: <ReadableStream> From `transform.readable`.

Connects this <ReadableStream> to the pair of <ReadableStream> and
<WritableStream> provided in the `transform` argument such that the data from
this <ReadableStream> is written in to `transform.writable`, possibly
transformed, then pushed to `transform.readable`. Once the pipeline is
configured, `transform.readable` is returned.

Causes the `readableStream.locked` to be `true` while the pipe operation is
active.

    
    
    import {
      ReadableStream,
      TransformStream,
    } from 'node:stream/web';
    
    const stream = new ReadableStream({
      start(controller) {
        controller.enqueue('a');
      },
    });
    
    const transform = new TransformStream({
      transform(chunk, controller) {
        controller.enqueue(chunk.toUpperCase());
      },
    });
    
    const transformedStream = stream.pipeThrough(transform);
    
    for await (const chunk of transformedStream)
      console.log(chunk);
      // Prints: Aconst {
      ReadableStream,
      TransformStream,
    } = require('node:stream/web');
    
    const stream = new ReadableStream({
      start(controller) {
        controller.enqueue('a');
      },
    });
    
    const transform = new TransformStream({
      transform(chunk, controller) {
        controller.enqueue(chunk.toUpperCase());
      },
    });
    
    const transformedStream = stream.pipeThrough(transform);
    
    (async () => {
      for await (const chunk of transformedStream)
        console.log(chunk);
        // Prints: A
    })();copy

##### `readableStream.pipeTo(destination[, options])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `destination` <WritableStream> A <WritableStream> to which this `ReadableStream`'s data will be written.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `preventAbort` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, errors in this `ReadableStream` will not cause `destination` to be aborted.
    * `preventCancel` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, errors in the `destination` will not cause this `ReadableStream` to be canceled.
    * `preventClose` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, closing this `ReadableStream` does not cause `destination` to be closed.
    * `signal` <AbortSignal> Allows the transfer of data to be canceled using an <AbortController>.
  * Returns: A promise fulfilled with `undefined`

Causes the `readableStream.locked` to be `true` while the pipe operation is
active.

##### `readableStream.tee()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.10.0, v16.18.0 | Support teeing a readable byte stream.  
v16.5.0 | Added in: v16.5.0  
  
  * Returns: <ReadableStream[]>

Returns a pair of new <ReadableStream> instances to which this
`ReadableStream`'s data will be forwarded. Each will receive the same data.

Causes the `readableStream.locked` to be `true`.

##### `readableStream.values([options])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `preventCancel` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, prevents the <ReadableStream> from being closed when the async iterator abruptly terminates. **Default** : `false`.

Creates and returns an async iterator usable for consuming this
`ReadableStream`'s data.

Causes the `readableStream.locked` to be `true` while the async iterator is
active.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const stream = new ReadableStream(getSomeSource());
    
    for await (const chunk of stream.values({ preventCancel: true }))
      console.log(Buffer.from(chunk).toString()); copy

##### Async Iteration#

The <ReadableStream> object supports the async iterator protocol using `for
await` syntax.

    
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const stream = new ReadableStream(getSomeSource());
    
    for await (const chunk of stream)
      console.log(Buffer.from(chunk).toString()); copy

The async iterator will consume the <ReadableStream> until it terminates.

By default, if the async iterator exits early (via either a `break`, `return`,
or a `throw`), the <ReadableStream> will be closed. To prevent automatic
closing of the <ReadableStream>, use the `readableStream.values()` method to
acquire the async iterator and set the `preventCancel` option to `true`.

The <ReadableStream> must not be locked (that is, it must not have an existing
active reader). During the async iteration, the <ReadableStream> will be
locked.

##### Transferring with `postMessage()`#

A <ReadableStream> instance can be transferred using a <MessagePort>.

    
    
    const stream = new ReadableStream(getReadableSourceSomehow());
    
    const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();
    
    port1.onmessage = ({ data }) => {
      data.getReader().read().then((chunk) => {
        console.log(chunk);
      });
    };
    
    port2.postMessage(stream, [stream]); copy

#### `ReadableStream.from(iterable)`#

Added in: v20.6.0

  * `iterable` [<Iterable>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterable_protocol) Object implementing the `Symbol.asyncIterator` or `Symbol.iterator` iterable protocol.

A utility method that creates a new <ReadableStream> from an iterable.

    
    
    import { ReadableStream } from 'node:stream/web';
    
    async function* asyncIterableGenerator() {
      yield 'a';
      yield 'b';
      yield 'c';
    }
    
    const stream = ReadableStream.from(asyncIterableGenerator());
    
    for await (const chunk of stream)
      console.log(chunk); // Prints: 'a', 'b', 'c'const { ReadableStream } = require('node:stream/web');
    
    async function* asyncIterableGenerator() {
      yield 'a';
      yield 'b';
      yield 'c';
    }
    
    (async () => {
      const stream = ReadableStream.from(asyncIterableGenerator());
    
      for await (const chunk of stream)
        console.log(chunk); // Prints: 'a', 'b', 'c'
    })();copy

To pipe the resulting <ReadableStream> into a <WritableStream> the
[<Iterable>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#The_iterable_protocol)
should yield a sequence of <Buffer>,
[<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray), or
[<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) objects.

    
    
    import { ReadableStream } from 'node:stream/web';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    async function* asyncIterableGenerator() {
      yield Buffer.from('a');
      yield Buffer.from('b');
      yield Buffer.from('c');
    }
    
    const stream = ReadableStream.from(asyncIterableGenerator());
    
    await stream.pipeTo(createWritableStreamSomehow());const { ReadableStream } = require('node:stream/web');
    const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    async function* asyncIterableGenerator() {
      yield Buffer.from('a');
      yield Buffer.from('b');
      yield Buffer.from('c');
    }
    
    const stream = ReadableStream.from(asyncIterableGenerator());
    
    (async () => {
      await stream.pipeTo(createWritableStreamSomehow());
    })();copy

#### Class: `ReadableStreamDefaultReader`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | This class is now exposed on the global object.  
v16.5.0 | Added in: v16.5.0  
  
By default, calling `readableStream.getReader()` with no arguments will return
an instance of `ReadableStreamDefaultReader`. The default reader treats the
chunks of data passed through the stream as opaque values, which allows the
<ReadableStream> to work with generally any JavaScript value.

##### `new ReadableStreamDefaultReader(stream)`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `stream` <ReadableStream>

Creates a new <ReadableStreamDefaultReader> that is locked to the given
<ReadableStream>.

##### `readableStreamDefaultReader.cancel([reason])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `reason` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: A promise fulfilled with `undefined`.

Cancels the <ReadableStream> and returns a promise that is fulfilled when the
underlying stream has been canceled.

##### `readableStreamDefaultReader.closed`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfilled with `undefined` when the associated <ReadableStream> is closed or rejected if the stream errors or the reader's lock is released before the stream finishes closing.

##### `readableStreamDefaultReader.read()`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Returns: A promise fulfilled with an object: 
    * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
    * `done` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Requests the next chunk of data from the underlying <ReadableStream> and
returns a promise that is fulfilled with the data once it is available.

##### `readableStreamDefaultReader.releaseLock()`#

Added in: v16.5.0

Releases this reader's lock on the underlying <ReadableStream>.

#### Class: `ReadableStreamBYOBReader`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | This class is now exposed on the global object.  
v16.5.0 | Added in: v16.5.0  
  
The `ReadableStreamBYOBReader` is an alternative consumer for byte-oriented
<ReadableStream>s (those that are created with `underlyingSource.type` set
equal to `'bytes'` when the `ReadableStream` was created).

The `BYOB` is short for "bring your own buffer". This is a pattern that allows
for more efficient reading of byte-oriented data that avoids extraneous
copying.

    
    
    import {
      open,
    } from 'node:fs/promises';
    
    import {
      ReadableStream,
    } from 'node:stream/web';
    
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    class Source {
      type = 'bytes';
      autoAllocateChunkSize = 1024;
    
      async start(controller) {
        this.file = await open(new URL(import.meta.url));
        this.controller = controller;
      }
    
      async pull(controller) {
        const view = controller.byobRequest?.view;
        const {
          bytesRead,
        } = await this.file.read({
          buffer: view,
          offset: view.byteOffset,
          length: view.byteLength,
        });
    
        if (bytesRead === 0) {
          await this.file.close();
          this.controller.close();
        }
        controller.byobRequest.respond(bytesRead);
      }
    }
    
    const stream = new ReadableStream(new Source());
    
    async function read(stream) {
      const reader = stream.getReader({ mode: 'byob' });
    
      const chunks = [];
      let result;
      do {
        result = await reader.read(Buffer.alloc(100));
        if (result.value !== undefined)
          chunks.push(Buffer.from(result.value));
      } while (!result.done);
    
      return Buffer.concat(chunks);
    }
    
    const data = await read(stream);
    console.log(Buffer.from(data).toString()); copy

##### `new ReadableStreamBYOBReader(stream)`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `stream` <ReadableStream>

Creates a new `ReadableStreamBYOBReader` that is locked to the given
<ReadableStream>.

##### `readableStreamBYOBReader.cancel([reason])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `reason` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: A promise fulfilled with `undefined`.

Cancels the <ReadableStream> and returns a promise that is fulfilled when the
underlying stream has been canceled.

##### `readableStreamBYOBReader.closed`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfilled with `undefined` when the associated <ReadableStream> is closed or rejected if the stream errors or the reader's lock is released before the stream finishes closing.

##### `readableStreamBYOBReader.read(view[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.7.0, v20.17.0 | Added `min` option.  
v16.5.0 | Added in: v16.5.0  
  
  * `view` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `min` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) When set, the returned promise will only be fulfilled as soon as `min` number of elements are available. When not set, the promise fulfills when at least one element is available.
  * Returns: A promise fulfilled with an object: 
    * `value` [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)
    * `done` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Requests the next chunk of data from the underlying <ReadableStream> and
returns a promise that is fulfilled with the data once it is available.

Do not pass a pooled <Buffer> object instance in to this method. Pooled
`Buffer` objects are created using `Buffer.allocUnsafe()`, or `Buffer.from()`,
or are often returned by various `node:fs` module callbacks. These types of
`Buffer`s use a shared underlying
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) object that
contains all of the data from all of the pooled `Buffer` instances. When a
`Buffer`, [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray), or
[<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) is passed in to
`readableStreamBYOBReader.read()`, the view's underlying `ArrayBuffer` is
_detached_ , invalidating all existing views that may exist on that
`ArrayBuffer`. This can have disastrous consequences for your application.

##### `readableStreamBYOBReader.releaseLock()`#

Added in: v16.5.0

Releases this reader's lock on the underlying <ReadableStream>.

#### Class: `ReadableStreamDefaultController`#

Added in: v16.5.0

Every <ReadableStream> has a controller that is responsible for the internal
state and management of the stream's queue. The
`ReadableStreamDefaultController` is the default controller implementation for
`ReadableStream`s that are not byte-oriented.

##### `readableStreamDefaultController.close()`#

Added in: v16.5.0

Closes the <ReadableStream> to which this controller is associated.

##### `readableStreamDefaultController.desiredSize`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the amount of data remaining to fill the <ReadableStream>'s queue.

##### `readableStreamDefaultController.enqueue([chunk])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `chunk` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Appends a new chunk of data to the <ReadableStream>'s queue.

##### `readableStreamDefaultController.error([error])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `error` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Signals an error that causes the <ReadableStream> to error and close.

#### Class: `ReadableByteStreamController`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.10.0 | Support handling a BYOB pull request from a released reader.  
v16.5.0 | Added in: v16.5.0  
  
Every <ReadableStream> has a controller that is responsible for the internal
state and management of the stream's queue. The `ReadableByteStreamController`
is for byte-oriented `ReadableStream`s.

##### `readableByteStreamController.byobRequest`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: <ReadableStreamBYOBRequest>

##### `readableByteStreamController.close()`#

Added in: v16.5.0

Closes the <ReadableStream> to which this controller is associated.

##### `readableByteStreamController.desiredSize`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Returns the amount of data remaining to fill the <ReadableStream>'s queue.

##### `readableByteStreamController.enqueue(chunk)`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `chunk`: <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)

Appends a new chunk of data to the <ReadableStream>'s queue.

##### `readableByteStreamController.error([error])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `error` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Signals an error that causes the <ReadableStream> to error and close.

#### Class: `ReadableStreamBYOBRequest`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | This class is now exposed on the global object.  
v16.5.0 | Added in: v16.5.0  
  
When using `ReadableByteStreamController` in byte-oriented streams, and when
using the `ReadableStreamBYOBReader`, the
`readableByteStreamController.byobRequest` property provides access to a
`ReadableStreamBYOBRequest` instance that represents the current read request.
The object is used to gain access to the `ArrayBuffer`/`TypedArray` that has
been provided for the read request to fill, and provides methods for signaling
that the data has been provided.

##### `readableStreamBYOBRequest.respond(bytesWritten)`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `bytesWritten` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Signals that a `bytesWritten` number of bytes have been written to
`readableStreamBYOBRequest.view`.

##### `readableStreamBYOBRequest.respondWithNewView(view)`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `view` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)

Signals that the request has been fulfilled with bytes written to a new
`Buffer`, `TypedArray`, or `DataView`.

##### `readableStreamBYOBRequest.view`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView)

#### Class: `WritableStream`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | This class is now exposed on the global object.  
v16.5.0 | Added in: v16.5.0  
  
The `WritableStream` is a destination to which stream data is sent.

    
    
    import {
      WritableStream,
    } from 'node:stream/web';
    
    const stream = new WritableStream({
      write(chunk) {
        console.log(chunk);
      },
    });
    
    await stream.getWriter().write('Hello World'); copy

##### `new WritableStream([underlyingSink[, strategy]])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `underlyingSink` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `start` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A user-defined function that is invoked immediately when the `WritableStream` is created. 
      * `controller` <WritableStreamDefaultController>
      * Returns: `undefined` or a promise fulfilled with `undefined`.
    * `write` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A user-defined function that is invoked when a chunk of data has been written to the `WritableStream`. 
      * `chunk` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
      * `controller` <WritableStreamDefaultController>
      * Returns: A promise fulfilled with `undefined`.
    * `close` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A user-defined function that is called when the `WritableStream` is closed. 
      * Returns: A promise fulfilled with `undefined`.
    * `abort` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A user-defined function that is called to abruptly close the `WritableStream`. 
      * `reason` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
      * Returns: A promise fulfilled with `undefined`.
    * `type` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The `type` option is reserved for future use and _must_ be undefined.
  * `strategy` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The maximum internal queue size before backpressure is applied.
    * `size` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A user-defined function used to identify the size of each chunk of data. 
      * `chunk` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
      * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

##### `writableStream.abort([reason])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `reason` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: A promise fulfilled with `undefined`.

Abruptly terminates the `WritableStream`. All queued writes will be canceled
with their associated promises rejected.

##### `writableStream.close()`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Returns: A promise fulfilled with `undefined`.

Closes the `WritableStream` when no additional writes are expected.

##### `writableStream.getWriter()`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Returns: <WritableStreamDefaultWriter>

Creates and returns a new writer instance that can be used to write data into
the `WritableStream`.

##### `writableStream.locked`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The `writableStream.locked` property is `false` by default, and is switched to
`true` while there is an active writer attached to this `WritableStream`.

##### Transferring with postMessage()#

A <WritableStream> instance can be transferred using a <MessagePort>.

    
    
    const stream = new WritableStream(getWritableSinkSomehow());
    
    const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();
    
    port1.onmessage = ({ data }) => {
      data.getWriter().write('hello');
    };
    
    port2.postMessage(stream, [stream]); copy

#### Class: `WritableStreamDefaultWriter`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | This class is now exposed on the global object.  
v16.5.0 | Added in: v16.5.0  
  
##### `new WritableStreamDefaultWriter(stream)`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `stream` <WritableStream>

Creates a new `WritableStreamDefaultWriter` that is locked to the given
`WritableStream`.

##### `writableStreamDefaultWriter.abort([reason])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `reason` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: A promise fulfilled with `undefined`.

Abruptly terminates the `WritableStream`. All queued writes will be canceled
with their associated promises rejected.

##### `writableStreamDefaultWriter.close()`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Returns: A promise fulfilled with `undefined`.

Closes the `WritableStream` when no additional writes are expected.

##### `writableStreamDefaultWriter.closed`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfilled with `undefined` when the associated <WritableStream> is closed or rejected if the stream errors or the writer's lock is released before the stream finishes closing.

##### `writableStreamDefaultWriter.desiredSize`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The amount of data required to fill the <WritableStream>'s queue.

##### `writableStreamDefaultWriter.ready`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfilled with `undefined` when the writer is ready to be used.

##### `writableStreamDefaultWriter.releaseLock()`#

Added in: v16.5.0

Releases this writer's lock on the underlying <ReadableStream>.

##### `writableStreamDefaultWriter.write([chunk])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `chunk`: [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * Returns: A promise fulfilled with `undefined`.

Appends a new chunk of data to the <WritableStream>'s queue.

#### Class: `WritableStreamDefaultController`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | This class is now exposed on the global object.  
v16.5.0 | Added in: v16.5.0  
  
The `WritableStreamDefaultController` manages the <WritableStream>'s internal
state.

##### `writableStreamDefaultController.error([error])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `error` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Called by user-code to signal that an error has occurred while processing the
`WritableStream` data. When called, the <WritableStream> will be aborted, with
currently pending writes canceled.

##### `writableStreamDefaultController.signal`#

  * Type: <AbortSignal> An `AbortSignal` that can be used to cancel pending write or close operations when a <WritableStream> is aborted.

#### Class: `TransformStream`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | This class is now exposed on the global object.  
v16.5.0 | Added in: v16.5.0  
  
A `TransformStream` consists of a <ReadableStream> and a <WritableStream> that
are connected such that the data written to the `WritableStream` is received,
and potentially transformed, before being pushed into the `ReadableStream`'s
queue.

    
    
    import {
      TransformStream,
    } from 'node:stream/web';
    
    const transform = new TransformStream({
      transform(chunk, controller) {
        controller.enqueue(chunk.toUpperCase());
      },
    });
    
    await Promise.all([
      transform.writable.getWriter().write('A'),
      transform.readable.getReader().read(),
    ]); copy

##### `new TransformStream([transformer[, writableStrategy[,
readableStrategy]]])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `transformer` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `start` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A user-defined function that is invoked immediately when the `TransformStream` is created. 
      * `controller` <TransformStreamDefaultController>
      * Returns: `undefined` or a promise fulfilled with `undefined`
    * `transform` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A user-defined function that receives, and potentially modifies, a chunk of data written to `transformStream.writable`, before forwarding that on to `transformStream.readable`. 
      * `chunk` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
      * `controller` <TransformStreamDefaultController>
      * Returns: A promise fulfilled with `undefined`.
    * `flush` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A user-defined function that is called immediately before the writable side of the `TransformStream` is closed, signaling the end of the transformation process. 
      * `controller` <TransformStreamDefaultController>
      * Returns: A promise fulfilled with `undefined`.
    * `readableType` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) the `readableType` option is reserved for future use and _must_ be `undefined`.
    * `writableType` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) the `writableType` option is reserved for future use and _must_ be `undefined`.
  * `writableStrategy` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The maximum internal queue size before backpressure is applied.
    * `size` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A user-defined function used to identify the size of each chunk of data. 
      * `chunk` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
      * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `readableStrategy` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The maximum internal queue size before backpressure is applied.
    * `size` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) A user-defined function used to identify the size of each chunk of data. 
      * `chunk` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
      * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

##### `transformStream.readable`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: <ReadableStream>

##### `transformStream.writable`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: <WritableStream>

##### Transferring with postMessage()#

A <TransformStream> instance can be transferred using a <MessagePort>.

    
    
    const stream = new TransformStream();
    
    const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();
    
    port1.onmessage = ({ data }) => {
      const { writable, readable } = data;
      // ...
    };
    
    port2.postMessage(stream, [stream]); copy

#### Class: `TransformStreamDefaultController`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | This class is now exposed on the global object.  
v16.5.0 | Added in: v16.5.0  
  
The `TransformStreamDefaultController` manages the internal state of the
`TransformStream`.

##### `transformStreamDefaultController.desiredSize`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The amount of data required to fill the readable side's queue.

##### `transformStreamDefaultController.enqueue([chunk])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `chunk` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Appends a chunk of data to the readable side's queue.

##### `transformStreamDefaultController.error([reason])`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `reason` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Signals to both the readable and writable side that an error has occurred
while processing the transform data, causing both sides to be abruptly closed.

##### `transformStreamDefaultController.terminate()`#

Added in: v16.5.0

Closes the readable side of the transport and causes the writable side to be
abruptly closed with an error.

#### Class: `ByteLengthQueuingStrategy`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | This class is now exposed on the global object.  
v16.5.0 | Added in: v16.5.0  
  
##### `new ByteLengthQueuingStrategy(init)`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `init` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

##### `byteLengthQueuingStrategy.highWaterMark`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

##### `byteLengthQueuingStrategy.size`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `chunk` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
    * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

#### Class: `CountQueuingStrategy`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | This class is now exposed on the global object.  
v16.5.0 | Added in: v16.5.0  
  
##### `new CountQueuingStrategy(init)`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * `init` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `highWaterMark` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

##### `countQueuingStrategy.highWaterMark`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

##### `countQueuingStrategy.size`#

Added in: v16.5.0

  * Type: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)
    * `chunk` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
    * Returns: [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

#### Class: `TextEncoderStream`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | This class is now exposed on the global object.  
v16.6.0 | Added in: v16.6.0  
  
##### `new TextEncoderStream()`#

Added in: v16.6.0

Creates a new `TextEncoderStream` instance.

##### `textEncoderStream.encoding`#

Added in: v16.6.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The encoding supported by the `TextEncoderStream` instance.

##### `textEncoderStream.readable`#

Added in: v16.6.0

  * Type: <ReadableStream>

##### `textEncoderStream.writable`#

Added in: v16.6.0

  * Type: <WritableStream>

#### Class: `TextDecoderStream`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | This class is now exposed on the global object.  
v16.6.0 | Added in: v16.6.0  
  
##### `new TextDecoderStream([encoding[, options]])`#

Added in: v16.6.0

  * `encoding` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) Identifies the `encoding` that this `TextDecoder` instance supports. **Default:** `'utf-8'`.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `fatal` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) `true` if decoding failures are fatal.
    * `ignoreBOM` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) When `true`, the `TextDecoderStream` will include the byte order mark in the decoded result. When `false`, the byte order mark will be removed from the output. This option is only used when `encoding` is `'utf-8'`, `'utf-16be'`, or `'utf-16le'`. **Default:** `false`.

Creates a new `TextDecoderStream` instance.

##### `textDecoderStream.encoding`#

Added in: v16.6.0

  * Type: [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)

The encoding supported by the `TextDecoderStream` instance.

##### `textDecoderStream.fatal`#

Added in: v16.6.0

  * Type: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The value will be `true` if decoding errors result in a `TypeError` being
thrown.

##### `textDecoderStream.ignoreBOM`#

Added in: v16.6.0

  * Type: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

The value will be `true` if the decoding result will include the byte order
mark.

##### `textDecoderStream.readable`#

Added in: v16.6.0

  * Type: <ReadableStream>

##### `textDecoderStream.writable`#

Added in: v16.6.0

  * Type: <WritableStream>

#### Class: `CompressionStream`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | This class is now exposed on the global object.  
v17.0.0 | Added in: v17.0.0  
  
##### `new CompressionStream(format)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.2.0, v20.12.0 | format now accepts `deflate-raw` value.  
v17.0.0 | Added in: v17.0.0  
  
  * `format` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) One of `'deflate'`, `'deflate-raw'`, or `'gzip'`.

##### `compressionStream.readable`#

Added in: v17.0.0

  * Type: <ReadableStream>

##### `compressionStream.writable`#

Added in: v17.0.0

  * Type: <WritableStream>

#### Class: `DecompressionStream`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | This class is now exposed on the global object.  
v17.0.0 | Added in: v17.0.0  
  
##### `new DecompressionStream(format)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.2.0, v20.12.0 | format now accepts `deflate-raw` value.  
v17.0.0 | Added in: v17.0.0  
  
  * `format` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) One of `'deflate'`, `'deflate-raw'`, or `'gzip'`.

##### `decompressionStream.readable`#

Added in: v17.0.0

  * Type: <ReadableStream>

##### `decompressionStream.writable`#

Added in: v17.0.0

  * Type: <WritableStream>

#### Utility Consumers#

Added in: v16.7.0

The utility consumer functions provide common options for consuming streams.

They are accessed using:

    
    
    import {
      arrayBuffer,
      blob,
      buffer,
      json,
      text,
    } from 'node:stream/consumers';const {
      arrayBuffer,
      blob,
      buffer,
      json,
      text,
    } = require('node:stream/consumers');copy

##### `streamConsumers.arrayBuffer(stream)`#

Added in: v16.7.0

  * `stream` <ReadableStream> | <stream.Readable> | [<AsyncIterator>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterator-interface)
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with an `ArrayBuffer` containing the full contents of the stream.

    
    
    import { arrayBuffer } from 'node:stream/consumers';
    import { Readable } from 'node:stream';
    import { TextEncoder } from 'node:util';
    
    const encoder = new TextEncoder();
    const dataArray = encoder.encode('hello world from consumers!');
    
    const readable = Readable.from(dataArray);
    const data = await arrayBuffer(readable);
    console.log(`from readable: ${data.byteLength}`);
    // Prints: from readable: 76const { arrayBuffer } = require('node:stream/consumers');
    const { Readable } = require('node:stream');
    const { TextEncoder } = require('node:util');
    
    const encoder = new TextEncoder();
    const dataArray = encoder.encode('hello world from consumers!');
    const readable = Readable.from(dataArray);
    arrayBuffer(readable).then((data) => {
      console.log(`from readable: ${data.byteLength}`);
      // Prints: from readable: 76
    });copy

##### `streamConsumers.blob(stream)`#

Added in: v16.7.0

  * `stream` <ReadableStream> | <stream.Readable> | [<AsyncIterator>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterator-interface)
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with a <Blob> containing the full contents of the stream.

    
    
    import { blob } from 'node:stream/consumers';
    
    const dataBlob = new Blob(['hello world from consumers!']);
    
    const readable = dataBlob.stream();
    const data = await blob(readable);
    console.log(`from readable: ${data.size}`);
    // Prints: from readable: 27const { blob } = require('node:stream/consumers');
    
    const dataBlob = new Blob(['hello world from consumers!']);
    
    const readable = dataBlob.stream();
    blob(readable).then((data) => {
      console.log(`from readable: ${data.size}`);
      // Prints: from readable: 27
    });copy

##### `streamConsumers.buffer(stream)`#

Added in: v16.7.0

  * `stream` <ReadableStream> | <stream.Readable> | [<AsyncIterator>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterator-interface)
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with a <Buffer> containing the full contents of the stream.

    
    
    import { buffer } from 'node:stream/consumers';
    import { Readable } from 'node:stream';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const dataBuffer = Buffer.from('hello world from consumers!');
    
    const readable = Readable.from(dataBuffer);
    const data = await buffer(readable);
    console.log(`from readable: ${data.length}`);
    // Prints: from readable: 27const { buffer } = require('node:stream/consumers');
    const { Readable } = require('node:stream');
    const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    const dataBuffer = Buffer.from('hello world from consumers!');
    
    const readable = Readable.from(dataBuffer);
    buffer(readable).then((data) => {
      console.log(`from readable: ${data.length}`);
      // Prints: from readable: 27
    });copy

##### `streamConsumers.json(stream)`#

Added in: v16.7.0

  * `stream` <ReadableStream> | <stream.Readable> | [<AsyncIterator>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterator-interface)
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with the contents of the stream parsed as a UTF-8 encoded string that is then passed through `JSON.parse()`.

    
    
    import { json } from 'node:stream/consumers';
    import { Readable } from 'node:stream';
    
    const items = Array.from(
      {
        length: 100,
      },
      () => ({
        message: 'hello world from consumers!',
      }),
    );
    
    const readable = Readable.from(JSON.stringify(items));
    const data = await json(readable);
    console.log(`from readable: ${data.length}`);
    // Prints: from readable: 100const { json } = require('node:stream/consumers');
    const { Readable } = require('node:stream');
    
    const items = Array.from(
      {
        length: 100,
      },
      () => ({
        message: 'hello world from consumers!',
      }),
    );
    
    const readable = Readable.from(JSON.stringify(items));
    json(readable).then((data) => {
      console.log(`from readable: ${data.length}`);
      // Prints: from readable: 100
    });copy

##### `streamConsumers.text(stream)`#

Added in: v16.7.0

  * `stream` <ReadableStream> | <stream.Readable> | [<AsyncIterator>](https://tc39.github.io/ecma262/#sec-asynciterator-interface)
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) Fulfills with the contents of the stream parsed as a UTF-8 encoded string.

    
    
    import { text } from 'node:stream/consumers';
    import { Readable } from 'node:stream';
    
    const readable = Readable.from('Hello world from consumers!');
    const data = await text(readable);
    console.log(`from readable: ${data.length}`);
    // Prints: from readable: 27const { text } = require('node:stream/consumers');
    const { Readable } = require('node:stream');
    
    const readable = Readable.from('Hello world from consumers!');
    text(readable).then((data) => {
      console.log(`from readable: ${data.length}`);
      // Prints: from readable: 27
    });copy

## Worker threads#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/worker_threads.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/worker_threads.js)

The `node:worker_threads` module enables the use of threads that execute
JavaScript in parallel. To access it:

    
    
    const worker = require('node:worker_threads'); copy

Workers (threads) are useful for performing CPU-intensive JavaScript
operations. They do not help much with I/O-intensive work. The Node.js built-
in asynchronous I/O operations are more efficient than Workers can be.

Unlike `child_process` or `cluster`, `worker_threads` can share memory. They
do so by transferring `ArrayBuffer` instances or sharing `SharedArrayBuffer`
instances.

    
    
    const {
      Worker, isMainThread, parentPort, workerData,
    } = require('node:worker_threads');
    
    if (isMainThread) {
      module.exports = function parseJSAsync(script) {
        return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
          const worker = new Worker(__filename, {
            workerData: script,
          });
          worker.on('message', resolve);
          worker.on('error', reject);
          worker.on('exit', (code) => {
            if (code !== 0)
              reject(new Error(`Worker stopped with exit code ${code}`));
          });
        });
      };
    } else {
      const { parse } = require('some-js-parsing-library');
      const script = workerData;
      parentPort.postMessage(parse(script));
    } copy

The above example spawns a Worker thread for each `parseJSAsync()` call. In
practice, use a pool of Workers for these kinds of tasks. Otherwise, the
overhead of creating Workers would likely exceed their benefit.

When implementing a worker pool, use the `AsyncResource` API to inform
diagnostic tools (e.g. to provide asynchronous stack traces) about the
correlation between tasks and their outcomes. See "Using `AsyncResource` for a
`Worker` thread pool" in the `async_hooks` documentation for an example
implementation.

Worker threads inherit non-process-specific options by default. Refer to
`Worker constructor options` to know how to customize worker thread options,
specifically `argv` and `execArgv` options.

### `worker.getEnvironmentData(key)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.5.0, v16.15.0 | No longer experimental.  
v15.12.0, v14.18.0 | Added in: v15.12.0, v14.18.0  
  
  * `key` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Any arbitrary, cloneable JavaScript value that can be used as a [<Map>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map) key.
  * Returns: [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)

Within a worker thread, `worker.getEnvironmentData()` returns a clone of data
passed to the spawning thread's `worker.setEnvironmentData()`. Every new
`Worker` receives its own copy of the environment data automatically.

    
    
    const {
      Worker,
      isMainThread,
      setEnvironmentData,
      getEnvironmentData,
    } = require('node:worker_threads');
    
    if (isMainThread) {
      setEnvironmentData('Hello', 'World!');
      const worker = new Worker(__filename);
    } else {
      console.log(getEnvironmentData('Hello'));  // Prints 'World!'.
    } copy

### `worker.isInternalThread`#

Added in: v23.7.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` if this code is running inside of an internal `Worker` thread (e.g
the loader thread).

    
    
    node --experimental-loader ./loader.js main.js copy
    
    
    // loader.js
    const { isInternalThread } = require('node:worker_threads');
    console.log(isInternalThread);  // true// loader.js
    import { isInternalThread } from 'node:worker_threads';
    console.log(isInternalThread);  // truecopy
    
    
    // main.js
    const { isInternalThread } = require('node:worker_threads');
    console.log(isInternalThread);  // false// main.js
    import { isInternalThread } from 'node:worker_threads';
    console.log(isInternalThread);  // falsecopy

### `worker.isMainThread`#

Added in: v10.5.0

  * [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Is `true` if this code is not running inside of a `Worker` thread.

    
    
    const { Worker, isMainThread } = require('node:worker_threads');
    
    if (isMainThread) {
      // This re-loads the current file inside a Worker instance.
      new Worker(__filename);
    } else {
      console.log('Inside Worker!');
      console.log(isMainThread);  // Prints 'false'.
    } copy

### `worker.markAsUntransferable(object)`#

Added in: v14.5.0, v12.19.0

  * `object` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Any arbitrary JavaScript value.

Mark an object as not transferable. If `object` occurs in the transfer list of
a `port.postMessage()` call, an error is thrown. This is a no-op if `object`
is a primitive value.

In particular, this makes sense for objects that can be cloned, rather than
transferred, and which are used by other objects on the sending side. For
example, Node.js marks the `ArrayBuffer`s it uses for its `Buffer` pool with
this.

This operation cannot be undone.

    
    
    const { MessageChannel, markAsUntransferable } = require('node:worker_threads');
    
    const pooledBuffer = new ArrayBuffer(8);
    const typedArray1 = new Uint8Array(pooledBuffer);
    const typedArray2 = new Float64Array(pooledBuffer);
    
    markAsUntransferable(pooledBuffer);
    
    const { port1 } = new MessageChannel();
    try {
      // This will throw an error, because pooledBuffer is not transferable.
      port1.postMessage(typedArray1, [ typedArray1.buffer ]);
    } catch (error) {
      // error.name === 'DataCloneError'
    }
    
    // The following line prints the contents of typedArray1 -- it still owns
    // its memory and has not been transferred. Without
    // `markAsUntransferable()`, this would print an empty Uint8Array and the
    // postMessage call would have succeeded.
    // typedArray2 is intact as well.
    console.log(typedArray1);
    console.log(typedArray2); copy

There is no equivalent to this API in browsers.

### `worker.isMarkedAsUntransferable(object)`#

Added in: v21.0.0

  * `object` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Any JavaScript value.
  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

Check if an object is marked as not transferable with
`markAsUntransferable()`.

    
    
    const { markAsUntransferable, isMarkedAsUntransferable } = require('node:worker_threads');
    
    const pooledBuffer = new ArrayBuffer(8);
    markAsUntransferable(pooledBuffer);
    
    isMarkedAsUntransferable(pooledBuffer);  // Returns true. copy

There is no equivalent to this API in browsers.

### `worker.markAsUncloneable(object)`#

Added in: v23.0.0

  * `object` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Any arbitrary JavaScript value.

Mark an object as not cloneable. If `object` is used as `message` in a
`port.postMessage()` call, an error is thrown. This is a no-op if `object` is
a primitive value.

This has no effect on `ArrayBuffer`, or any `Buffer` like objects.

This operation cannot be undone.

    
    
    const { markAsUncloneable } = require('node:worker_threads');
    
    const anyObject = { foo: 'bar' };
    markAsUncloneable(anyObject);
    const { port1 } = new MessageChannel();
    try {
      // This will throw an error, because anyObject is not cloneable.
      port1.postMessage(anyObject);
    } catch (error) {
      // error.name === 'DataCloneError'
    } copy

There is no equivalent to this API in browsers.

### `worker.moveMessagePortToContext(port, contextifiedSandbox)`#

Added in: v11.13.0

  * `port` <MessagePort> The message port to transfer.

  * `contextifiedSandbox` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) A contextified object as returned by the `vm.createContext()` method.

  * Returns: <MessagePort>

Transfer a `MessagePort` to a different [`vm`](vm.html) Context. The original
`port` object is rendered unusable, and the returned `MessagePort` instance
takes its place.

The returned `MessagePort` is an object in the target context and inherits
from its global `Object` class. Objects passed to the
[`port.onmessage()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/MessagePort/onmessage) listener are also created in the target
context and inherit from its global `Object` class.

However, the created `MessagePort` no longer inherits from <EventTarget>, and
only [`port.onmessage()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/MessagePort/onmessage) can be used to receive events using it.

### `worker.parentPort`#

Added in: v10.5.0

  * [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | <MessagePort>

If this thread is a `Worker`, this is a `MessagePort` allowing communication
with the parent thread. Messages sent using `parentPort.postMessage()` are
available in the parent thread using `worker.on('message')`, and messages sent
from the parent thread using `worker.postMessage()` are available in this
thread using `parentPort.on('message')`.

    
    
    const { Worker, isMainThread, parentPort } = require('node:worker_threads');
    
    if (isMainThread) {
      const worker = new Worker(__filename);
      worker.once('message', (message) => {
        console.log(message);  // Prints 'Hello, world!'.
      });
      worker.postMessage('Hello, world!');
    } else {
      // When a message from the parent thread is received, send it back:
      parentPort.once('message', (message) => {
        parentPort.postMessage(message);
      });
    } copy

### `worker.postMessageToThread(threadId, value[, transferList][, timeout])`#

Added in: v22.5.0

Stability: 1.1 - Active development

  * `threadId` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The target thread ID. If the thread ID is invalid, a `ERR_WORKER_MESSAGING_FAILED` error will be thrown. If the target thread ID is the current thread ID, a `ERR_WORKER_MESSAGING_SAME_THREAD` error will be thrown.
  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The value to send.
  * `transferList` [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) If one or more `MessagePort`-like objects are passed in `value`, a `transferList` is required for those items or `ERR_MISSING_MESSAGE_PORT_IN_TRANSFER_LIST` is thrown. See `port.postMessage()` for more information.
  * `timeout` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Time to wait for the message to be delivered in milliseconds. By default it's `undefined`, which means wait forever. If the operation times out, a `ERR_WORKER_MESSAGING_TIMEOUT` error is thrown.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) A promise which is fulfilled if the message was successfully processed by destination thread.

Sends a value to another worker, identified by its thread ID.

If the target thread has no listener for the `workerMessage` event, then the
operation will throw a `ERR_WORKER_MESSAGING_FAILED` error.

If the target thread threw an error while processing the `workerMessage`
event, then the operation will throw a `ERR_WORKER_MESSAGING_ERRORED` error.

This method should be used when the target thread is not the direct parent or
child of the current thread. If the two threads are parent-children, use the
`require('node:worker_threads').parentPort.postMessage()` and the
`worker.postMessage()` to let the threads communicate.

The example below shows the use of of `postMessageToThread`: it creates 10
nested threads, the last one will try to communicate with the main thread.

    
    
    import { fileURLToPath } from 'node:url';
    import process from 'node:process';
    import {
      postMessageToThread,
      threadId,
      workerData,
      Worker,
    } from 'node:worker_threads';
    
    const channel = new BroadcastChannel('sync');
    const level = workerData?.level ?? 0;
    
    if (level < 10) {
      const worker = new Worker(fileURLToPath(import.meta.url), {
        workerData: { level: level + 1 },
      });
    }
    
    if (level === 0) {
      process.on('workerMessage', (value, source) => {
        console.log(`${source} -> ${threadId}:`, value);
        postMessageToThread(source, { message: 'pong' });
      });
    } else if (level === 10) {
      process.on('workerMessage', (value, source) => {
        console.log(`${source} -> ${threadId}:`, value);
        channel.postMessage('done');
        channel.close();
      });
    
      await postMessageToThread(0, { message: 'ping' });
    }
    
    channel.onmessage = channel.close;const {
      postMessageToThread,
      threadId,
      workerData,
      Worker,
    } = require('node:worker_threads');
    
    const channel = new BroadcastChannel('sync');
    const level = workerData?.level ?? 0;
    
    if (level < 10) {
      const worker = new Worker(__filename, {
        workerData: { level: level + 1 },
      });
    }
    
    if (level === 0) {
      process.on('workerMessage', (value, source) => {
        console.log(`${source} -> ${threadId}:`, value);
        postMessageToThread(source, { message: 'pong' });
      });
    } else if (level === 10) {
      process.on('workerMessage', (value, source) => {
        console.log(`${source} -> ${threadId}:`, value);
        channel.postMessage('done');
        channel.close();
      });
    
      postMessageToThread(0, { message: 'ping' });
    }
    
    channel.onmessage = channel.close;copy

### `worker.receiveMessageOnPort(port)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v15.12.0 | The port argument can also refer to a `BroadcastChannel` now.  
v12.3.0 | Added in: v12.3.0  
  
  * `port` <MessagePort> | <BroadcastChannel>

  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) | [<undefined>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Undefined_type)

Receive a single message from a given `MessagePort`. If no message is
available, `undefined` is returned, otherwise an object with a single
`message` property that contains the message payload, corresponding to the
oldest message in the `MessagePort`'s queue.

    
    
    const { MessageChannel, receiveMessageOnPort } = require('node:worker_threads');
    const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();
    port1.postMessage({ hello: 'world' });
    
    console.log(receiveMessageOnPort(port2));
    // Prints: { message: { hello: 'world' } }
    console.log(receiveMessageOnPort(port2));
    // Prints: undefined copy

When this function is used, no `'message'` event is emitted and the
`onmessage` listener is not invoked.

### `worker.resourceLimits`#

Added in: v13.2.0, v12.16.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `maxYoungGenerationSizeMb` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `maxOldGenerationSizeMb` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `codeRangeSizeMb` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `stackSizeMb` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Provides the set of JS engine resource constraints inside this Worker thread.
If the `resourceLimits` option was passed to the `Worker` constructor, this
matches its values.

If this is used in the main thread, its value is an empty object.

### `worker.SHARE_ENV`#

Added in: v11.14.0

  * [<symbol>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Symbol_type)

A special value that can be passed as the `env` option of the `Worker`
constructor, to indicate that the current thread and the Worker thread should
share read and write access to the same set of environment variables.

    
    
    const { Worker, SHARE_ENV } = require('node:worker_threads');
    new Worker('process.env.SET_IN_WORKER = "foo"', { eval: true, env: SHARE_ENV })
      .on('exit', () => {
        console.log(process.env.SET_IN_WORKER);  // Prints 'foo'.
      }); copy

### `worker.setEnvironmentData(key[, value])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v17.5.0, v16.15.0 | No longer experimental.  
v15.12.0, v14.18.0 | Added in: v15.12.0, v14.18.0  
  
  * `key` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Any arbitrary, cloneable JavaScript value that can be used as a [<Map>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map) key.
  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Any arbitrary, cloneable JavaScript value that will be cloned and passed automatically to all new `Worker` instances. If `value` is passed as `undefined`, any previously set value for the `key` will be deleted.

The `worker.setEnvironmentData()` API sets the content of
`worker.getEnvironmentData()` in the current thread and all new `Worker`
instances spawned from the current context.

### `worker.threadId`#

Added in: v10.5.0

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

An integer identifier for the current thread. On the corresponding worker
object (if there is any), it is available as `worker.threadId`. This value is
unique for each `Worker` instance inside a single process.

### `worker.workerData`#

Added in: v10.5.0

An arbitrary JavaScript value that contains a clone of the data passed to this
thread's `Worker` constructor.

The data is cloned as if using `postMessage()`, according to the [HTML
structured clone algorithm](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm).

    
    
    const { Worker, isMainThread, workerData } = require('node:worker_threads');
    
    if (isMainThread) {
      const worker = new Worker(__filename, { workerData: 'Hello, world!' });
    } else {
      console.log(workerData);  // Prints 'Hello, world!'.
    } copy

### Class: `BroadcastChannel extends EventTarget`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v18.0.0 | No longer experimental.  
v15.4.0 | Added in: v15.4.0  
  
Instances of `BroadcastChannel` allow asynchronous one-to-many communication
with all other `BroadcastChannel` instances bound to the same channel name.

    
    
    'use strict';
    
    const {
      isMainThread,
      BroadcastChannel,
      Worker,
    } = require('node:worker_threads');
    
    const bc = new BroadcastChannel('hello');
    
    if (isMainThread) {
      let c = 0;
      bc.onmessage = (event) => {
        console.log(event.data);
        if (++c === 10) bc.close();
      };
      for (let n = 0; n < 10; n++)
        new Worker(__filename);
    } else {
      bc.postMessage('hello from every worker');
      bc.close();
    } copy

#### `new BroadcastChannel(name)`#

Added in: v15.4.0

  * `name` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The name of the channel to connect to. Any JavaScript value that can be converted to a string using ``${name}`` is permitted.

#### `broadcastChannel.close()`#

Added in: v15.4.0

Closes the `BroadcastChannel` connection.

#### `broadcastChannel.onmessage`#

Added in: v15.4.0

  * Type: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Invoked with a single `MessageEvent` argument when a message is received.

#### `broadcastChannel.onmessageerror`#

Added in: v15.4.0

  * Type: [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function) Invoked with a received message cannot be deserialized.

#### `broadcastChannel.postMessage(message)`#

Added in: v15.4.0

  * `message` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Any cloneable JavaScript value.

#### `broadcastChannel.ref()`#

Added in: v15.4.0

Opposite of `unref()`. Calling `ref()` on a previously `unref()`ed
BroadcastChannel does _not_ let the program exit if it's the only active
handle left (the default behavior). If the port is `ref()`ed, calling `ref()`
again has no effect.

#### `broadcastChannel.unref()`#

Added in: v15.4.0

Calling `unref()` on a BroadcastChannel allows the thread to exit if this is
the only active handle in the event system. If the BroadcastChannel is already
`unref()`ed calling `unref()` again has no effect.

### Class: `MessageChannel`#

Added in: v10.5.0

Instances of the `worker.MessageChannel` class represent an asynchronous, two-
way communications channel. The `MessageChannel` has no methods of its own.
`new MessageChannel()` yields an object with `port1` and `port2` properties,
which refer to linked `MessagePort` instances.

    
    
    const { MessageChannel } = require('node:worker_threads');
    
    const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();
    port1.on('message', (message) => console.log('received', message));
    port2.postMessage({ foo: 'bar' });
    // Prints: received { foo: 'bar' } from the `port1.on('message')` listener copy

### Class: `MessagePort`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.7.0 | This class now inherits from `EventTarget` rather than from `EventEmitter`.  
v10.5.0 | Added in: v10.5.0  
  
  * Extends: <EventTarget>

Instances of the `worker.MessagePort` class represent one end of an
asynchronous, two-way communications channel. It can be used to transfer
structured data, memory regions and other `MessagePort`s between different
`Worker`s.

This implementation matches [browser
`MessagePort`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MessagePort)s.

#### Event: `'close'`#

Added in: v10.5.0

The `'close'` event is emitted once either side of the channel has been
disconnected.

    
    
    const { MessageChannel } = require('node:worker_threads');
    const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();
    
    // Prints:
    //   foobar
    //   closed!
    port2.on('message', (message) => console.log(message));
    port2.on('close', () => console.log('closed!'));
    
    port1.postMessage('foobar');
    port1.close(); copy

#### Event: `'message'`#

Added in: v10.5.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The transmitted value

The `'message'` event is emitted for any incoming message, containing the
cloned input of `port.postMessage()`.

Listeners on this event receive a clone of the `value` parameter as passed to
`postMessage()` and no further arguments.

#### Event: `'messageerror'`#

Added in: v14.5.0, v12.19.0

  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) An Error object

The `'messageerror'` event is emitted when deserializing a message failed.

Currently, this event is emitted when there is an error occurring while
instantiating the posted JS object on the receiving end. Such situations are
rare, but can happen, for instance, when certain Node.js API objects are
received in a `vm.Context` (where Node.js APIs are currently unavailable).

#### `port.close()`#

Added in: v10.5.0

Disables further sending of messages on either side of the connection. This
method can be called when no further communication will happen over this
`MessagePort`.

The `'close'` event is emitted on both `MessagePort` instances that are part
of the channel.

#### `port.postMessage(value[, transferList])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v21.0.0 | An error is thrown when an untransferable object is in the transfer list.  
v15.6.0 | Added `X509Certificate` to the list of cloneable types.  
v15.0.0 | Added `CryptoKey` to the list of cloneable types.  
v15.14.0, v14.18.0 | Add 'BlockList' to the list of cloneable types.  
v15.9.0, v14.18.0 | Add 'Histogram' types to the list of cloneable types.  
v14.5.0, v12.19.0 | Added `KeyObject` to the list of cloneable types.  
v14.5.0, v12.19.0 | Added `FileHandle` to the list of transferable types.  
v10.5.0 | Added in: v10.5.0  
  
  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `transferList` [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Sends a JavaScript value to the receiving side of this channel. `value` is
transferred in a way which is compatible with the [HTML structured clone
algorithm](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm).

In particular, the significant differences to `JSON` are:

  * `value` may contain circular references.
  * `value` may contain instances of builtin JS types such as `RegExp`s, `BigInt`s, `Map`s, `Set`s, etc.
  * `value` may contain typed arrays, both using `ArrayBuffer`s and `SharedArrayBuffer`s.
  * `value` may contain [`WebAssembly.Module`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/WebAssembly/Module) instances.
  * `value` may not contain native (C++-backed) objects other than: 
    * <CryptoKey>s,
    * <FileHandle>s,
    * <Histogram>s,
    * <KeyObject>s,
    * <MessagePort>s,
    * <net.BlockList>s,
    * <net.SocketAddress>es,
    * <X509Certificate>s.

    
    
    const { MessageChannel } = require('node:worker_threads');
    const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();
    
    port1.on('message', (message) => console.log(message));
    
    const circularData = {};
    circularData.foo = circularData;
    // Prints: { foo: [Circular] }
    port2.postMessage(circularData); copy

`transferList` may be a list of
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer), `MessagePort`,
and `FileHandle` objects. After transferring, they are not usable on the
sending side of the channel anymore (even if they are not contained in
`value`). Unlike with [child processes](child_process.html), transferring
handles such as network sockets is currently not supported.

If `value` contains [<SharedArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SharedArrayBuffer) instances,
those are accessible from either thread. They cannot be listed in
`transferList`.

`value` may still contain `ArrayBuffer` instances that are not in
`transferList`; in that case, the underlying memory is copied rather than
moved.

    
    
    const { MessageChannel } = require('node:worker_threads');
    const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();
    
    port1.on('message', (message) => console.log(message));
    
    const uint8Array = new Uint8Array([ 1, 2, 3, 4 ]);
    // This posts a copy of `uint8Array`:
    port2.postMessage(uint8Array);
    // This does not copy data, but renders `uint8Array` unusable:
    port2.postMessage(uint8Array, [ uint8Array.buffer ]);
    
    // The memory for the `sharedUint8Array` is accessible from both the
    // original and the copy received by `.on('message')`:
    const sharedUint8Array = new Uint8Array(new SharedArrayBuffer(4));
    port2.postMessage(sharedUint8Array);
    
    // This transfers a freshly created message port to the receiver.
    // This can be used, for example, to create communication channels between
    // multiple `Worker` threads that are children of the same parent thread.
    const otherChannel = new MessageChannel();
    port2.postMessage({ port: otherChannel.port1 }, [ otherChannel.port1 ]); copy

The message object is cloned immediately, and can be modified after posting
without having side effects.

For more information on the serialization and deserialization mechanisms
behind this API, see the serialization API of the `node:v8` module.

##### Considerations when transferring TypedArrays and Buffers#

All [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | <Buffer> instances are views over an underlying [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer). That is, it is the `ArrayBuffer` that actually stores the raw data while the `TypedArray` and `Buffer` objects provide a way of viewing and manipulating the data. It is possible and common for multiple views to be created over the same `ArrayBuffer` instance. Great care must be taken when using a transfer list to transfer an `ArrayBuffer` as doing so causes all `TypedArray` and `Buffer` instances that share that same `ArrayBuffer` to become unusable.
    
    
    const ab = new ArrayBuffer(10);
    
    const u1 = new Uint8Array(ab);
    const u2 = new Uint16Array(ab);
    
    console.log(u2.length);  // prints 5
    
    port.postMessage(u1, [u1.buffer]);
    
    console.log(u2.length);  // prints 0 copy

For `Buffer` instances, specifically, whether the underlying `ArrayBuffer` can
be transferred or cloned depends entirely on how instances were created, which
often cannot be reliably determined.

An `ArrayBuffer` can be marked with `markAsUntransferable()` to indicate that
it should always be cloned and never transferred.

Depending on how a `Buffer` instance was created, it may or may not own its
underlying `ArrayBuffer`. An `ArrayBuffer` must not be transferred unless it
is known that the `Buffer` instance owns it. In particular, for `Buffer`s
created from the internal `Buffer` pool (using, for instance `Buffer.from()`
or `Buffer.allocUnsafe()`), transferring them is not possible and they are
always cloned, which sends a copy of the entire `Buffer` pool. This behavior
may come with unintended higher memory usage and possible security concerns.

See `Buffer.allocUnsafe()` for more details on `Buffer` pooling.

The `ArrayBuffer`s for `Buffer` instances created using `Buffer.alloc()` or
`Buffer.allocUnsafeSlow()` can always be transferred but doing so renders all
other existing views of those `ArrayBuffer`s unusable.

##### Considerations when cloning objects with prototypes, classes, and
accessors#

Because object cloning uses the [HTML structured clone
algorithm](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm), non-enumerable
properties, property accessors, and object prototypes are not preserved. In
particular, <Buffer> objects will be read as plain
[<Uint8Array>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Uint8Array)s on the receiving
side, and instances of JavaScript classes will be cloned as plain JavaScript
objects.

    
    
    const b = Symbol('b');
    
    class Foo {
      #a = 1;
      constructor() {
        this[b] = 2;
        this.c = 3;
      }
    
      get d() { return 4; }
    }
    
    const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();
    
    port1.onmessage = ({ data }) => console.log(data);
    
    port2.postMessage(new Foo());
    
    // Prints: { c: 3 } copy

This limitation extends to many built-in objects, such as the global `URL`
object:

    
    
    const { port1, port2 } = new MessageChannel();
    
    port1.onmessage = ({ data }) => console.log(data);
    
    port2.postMessage(new URL('https://example.org'));
    
    // Prints: { } copy

#### `port.hasRef()`#

Added in: v18.1.0, v16.17.0

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

  * Returns: [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type)

If true, the `MessagePort` object will keep the Node.js event loop active.

#### `port.ref()`#

Added in: v10.5.0

Opposite of `unref()`. Calling `ref()` on a previously `unref()`ed port does
_not_ let the program exit if it's the only active handle left (the default
behavior). If the port is `ref()`ed, calling `ref()` again has no effect.

If listeners are attached or removed using `.on('message')`, the port is
`ref()`ed and `unref()`ed automatically depending on whether listeners for the
event exist.

#### `port.start()`#

Added in: v10.5.0

Starts receiving messages on this `MessagePort`. When using this port as an
event emitter, this is called automatically once `'message'` listeners are
attached.

This method exists for parity with the Web `MessagePort` API. In Node.js, it
is only useful for ignoring messages when no event listener is present.
Node.js also diverges in its handling of `.onmessage`. Setting it
automatically calls `.start()`, but unsetting it lets messages queue up until
a new handler is set or the port is discarded.

#### `port.unref()`#

Added in: v10.5.0

Calling `unref()` on a port allows the thread to exit if this is the only
active handle in the event system. If the port is already `unref()`ed calling
`unref()` again has no effect.

If listeners are attached or removed using `.on('message')`, the port is
`ref()`ed and `unref()`ed automatically depending on whether listeners for the
event exist.

### Class: `Worker`#

Added in: v10.5.0

  * Extends: <EventEmitter>

The `Worker` class represents an independent JavaScript execution thread. Most
Node.js APIs are available inside of it.

Notable differences inside a Worker environment are:

  * The `process.stdin`, `process.stdout`, and `process.stderr` streams may be redirected by the parent thread.
  * The `require('node:worker_threads').isMainThread` property is set to `false`.
  * The `require('node:worker_threads').parentPort` message port is available.
  * `process.exit()` does not stop the whole program, just the single thread, and `process.abort()` is not available.
  * `process.chdir()` and `process` methods that set group or user ids are not available.
  * `process.env` is a copy of the parent thread's environment variables, unless otherwise specified. Changes to one copy are not visible in other threads, and are not visible to native add-ons (unless `worker.SHARE_ENV` is passed as the `env` option to the `Worker` constructor). On Windows, unlike the main thread, a copy of the environment variables operates in a case-sensitive manner.
  * `process.title` cannot be modified.
  * Signals are not delivered through `process.on('...')`.
  * Execution may stop at any point as a result of `worker.terminate()` being invoked.
  * IPC channels from parent processes are not accessible.
  * The [`trace_events`](tracing.html) module is not supported.
  * Native add-ons can only be loaded from multiple threads if they fulfill certain conditions.

Creating `Worker` instances inside of other `Worker`s is possible.

Like [Web Workers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API) and the [`node:cluster`
module](cluster.html), two-way communication can be achieved through inter-
thread message passing. Internally, a `Worker` has a built-in pair of
`MessagePort`s that are already associated with each other when the `Worker`
is created. While the `MessagePort` object on the parent side is not directly
exposed, its functionalities are exposed through `worker.postMessage()` and
the `worker.on('message')` event on the `Worker` object for the parent thread.

To create custom messaging channels (which is encouraged over using the
default global channel because it facilitates separation of concerns), users
can create a `MessageChannel` object on either thread and pass one of the
`MessagePort`s on that `MessageChannel` to the other thread through a pre-
existing channel, such as the global one.

See `port.postMessage()` for more information on how messages are passed, and
what kind of JavaScript values can be successfully transported through the
thread barrier.

    
    
    const assert = require('node:assert');
    const {
      Worker, MessageChannel, MessagePort, isMainThread, parentPort,
    } = require('node:worker_threads');
    if (isMainThread) {
      const worker = new Worker(__filename);
      const subChannel = new MessageChannel();
      worker.postMessage({ hereIsYourPort: subChannel.port1 }, [subChannel.port1]);
      subChannel.port2.on('message', (value) => {
        console.log('received:', value);
      });
    } else {
      parentPort.once('message', (value) => {
        assert(value.hereIsYourPort instanceof MessagePort);
        value.hereIsYourPort.postMessage('the worker is sending this');
        value.hereIsYourPort.close();
      });
    } copy

#### `new Worker(filename[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.8.0, v18.16.0 | Added support for a `name` option, which allows adding a name to worker title for debugging.  
v14.9.0 | The `filename` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `data:` protocol.  
v14.9.0 | The `trackUnmanagedFds` option was set to `true` by default.  
v14.6.0, v12.19.0 | The `trackUnmanagedFds` option was introduced.  
v13.13.0, v12.17.0 | The `transferList` option was introduced.  
v13.12.0, v12.17.0 | The `filename` parameter can be a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` protocol.  
v13.4.0, v12.16.0 | The `argv` option was introduced.  
v13.2.0, v12.16.0 | The `resourceLimits` option was introduced.  
v10.5.0 | Added in: v10.5.0  
  
  * `filename` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <URL> The path to the Worker's main script or module. Must be either an absolute path or a relative path (i.e. relative to the current working directory) starting with `./` or `../`, or a WHATWG `URL` object using `file:` or `data:` protocol. When using a [`data:` URL](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/Data_URIs), the data is interpreted based on MIME type using the ECMAScript module loader. If `options.eval` is `true`, this is a string containing JavaScript code rather than a path.
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `argv` [<any[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) List of arguments which would be stringified and appended to `process.argv` in the worker. This is mostly similar to the `workerData` but the values are available on the global `process.argv` as if they were passed as CLI options to the script.
    * `env` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) If set, specifies the initial value of `process.env` inside the Worker thread. As a special value, `worker.SHARE_ENV` may be used to specify that the parent thread and the child thread should share their environment variables; in that case, changes to one thread's `process.env` object affect the other thread as well. **Default:** `process.env`.
    * `eval` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If `true` and the first argument is a `string`, interpret the first argument to the constructor as a script that is executed once the worker is online.
    * `execArgv` [<string[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) List of node CLI options passed to the worker. V8 options (such as `--max-old-space-size`) and options that affect the process (such as `--title`) are not supported. If set, this is provided as `process.execArgv` inside the worker. By default, options are inherited from the parent thread.
    * `stdin` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If this is set to `true`, then `worker.stdin` provides a writable stream whose contents appear as `process.stdin` inside the Worker. By default, no data is provided.
    * `stdout` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If this is set to `true`, then `worker.stdout` is not automatically piped through to `process.stdout` in the parent.
    * `stderr` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If this is set to `true`, then `worker.stderr` is not automatically piped through to `process.stderr` in the parent.
    * `workerData` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) Any JavaScript value that is cloned and made available as `require('node:worker_threads').workerData`. The cloning occurs as described in the [HTML structured clone algorithm](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Structured_clone_algorithm), and an error is thrown if the object cannot be cloned (e.g. because it contains `function`s).
    * `trackUnmanagedFds` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If this is set to `true`, then the Worker tracks raw file descriptors managed through `fs.open()` and `fs.close()`, and closes them when the Worker exits, similar to other resources like network sockets or file descriptors managed through the `FileHandle` API. This option is automatically inherited by all nested `Worker`s. **Default:** `true`.
    * `transferList` [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) If one or more `MessagePort`-like objects are passed in `workerData`, a `transferList` is required for those items or `ERR_MISSING_MESSAGE_PORT_IN_TRANSFER_LIST` is thrown. See `port.postMessage()` for more information.
    * `resourceLimits` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) An optional set of resource limits for the new JS engine instance. Reaching these limits leads to termination of the `Worker` instance. These limits only affect the JS engine, and no external data, including no `ArrayBuffer`s. Even if these limits are set, the process may still abort if it encounters a global out-of-memory situation. 
      * `maxOldGenerationSizeMb` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The maximum size of the main heap in MB. If the command-line argument `--max-old-space-size` is set, it overrides this setting.
      * `maxYoungGenerationSizeMb` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The maximum size of a heap space for recently created objects. If the command-line argument `--max-semi-space-size` is set, it overrides this setting.
      * `codeRangeSizeMb` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The size of a pre-allocated memory range used for generated code.
      * `stackSizeMb` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) The default maximum stack size for the thread. Small values may lead to unusable Worker instances. **Default:** `4`.
    * `name` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) An optional `name` to be replaced in the thread name and to the worker title for debugging/identification purposes, making the final title as `[worker ${id}] ${name}`. This parameter has a maximum allowed size, depending on the operating system. If the provided name exceeds the limit, it will be truncated 
      * Maximum sizes: 
        * Windows: 32,767 characters
        * macOS: 64 characters
        * Linux: 16 characters
        * NetBSD: limited to `PTHREAD_MAX_NAMELEN_NP`
        * FreeBSD and OpenBSD: limited to `MAXCOMLEN` **Default:** `'WorkerThread'`.

#### Event: `'error'`#

Added in: v10.5.0

  * `err` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error)

The `'error'` event is emitted if the worker thread throws an uncaught
exception. In that case, the worker is terminated.

#### Event: `'exit'`#

Added in: v10.5.0

  * `exitCode` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `'exit'` event is emitted once the worker has stopped. If the worker
exited by calling `process.exit()`, the `exitCode` parameter is the passed
exit code. If the worker was terminated, the `exitCode` parameter is `1`.

This is the final event emitted by any `Worker` instance.

#### Event: `'message'`#

Added in: v10.5.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types) The transmitted value

The `'message'` event is emitted when the worker thread has invoked
`require('node:worker_threads').parentPort.postMessage()`. See the
`port.on('message')` event for more details.

All messages sent from the worker thread are emitted before the `'exit'` event
is emitted on the `Worker` object.

#### Event: `'messageerror'`#

Added in: v14.5.0, v12.19.0

  * `error` [<Error>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) An Error object

The `'messageerror'` event is emitted when deserializing a message failed.

#### Event: `'online'`#

Added in: v10.5.0

The `'online'` event is emitted when the worker thread has started executing
JavaScript code.

#### `worker.getHeapSnapshot([options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v19.1.0 | Support options to configure the heap snapshot.  
v13.9.0, v12.17.0 | Added in: v13.9.0, v12.17.0  
  
  * `options` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `exposeInternals` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If true, expose internals in the heap snapshot. **Default:** `false`.
    * `exposeNumericValues` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) If true, expose numeric values in artificial fields. **Default:** `false`.
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) A promise for a Readable Stream containing a V8 heap snapshot

Returns a readable stream for a V8 snapshot of the current state of the
Worker. See `v8.getHeapSnapshot()` for more details.

If the Worker thread is no longer running, which may occur before the `'exit'`
event is emitted, the returned `Promise` is rejected immediately with an
`ERR_WORKER_NOT_RUNNING` error.

#### `worker.performance`#

Added in: v15.1.0, v14.17.0, v12.22.0

An object that can be used to query performance information from a worker
instance. Similar to `perf_hooks.performance`.

##### `performance.eventLoopUtilization([utilization1[, utilization2]])`#

Added in: v15.1.0, v14.17.0, v12.22.0

  * `utilization1` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The result of a previous call to `eventLoopUtilization()`.
  * `utilization2` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) The result of a previous call to `eventLoopUtilization()` prior to `utilization1`.
  * Returns: [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `idle` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `active` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `utilization` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The same call as `perf_hooks` `eventLoopUtilization()`, except the values of
the worker instance are returned.

One difference is that, unlike the main thread, bootstrapping within a worker
is done within the event loop. So the event loop utilization is immediately
available once the worker's script begins execution.

An `idle` time that does not increase does not indicate that the worker is
stuck in bootstrap. The following examples shows how the worker's entire
lifetime never accumulates any `idle` time, but is still be able to process
messages.

    
    
    const { Worker, isMainThread, parentPort } = require('node:worker_threads');
    
    if (isMainThread) {
      const worker = new Worker(__filename);
      setInterval(() => {
        worker.postMessage('hi');
        console.log(worker.performance.eventLoopUtilization());
      }, 100).unref();
      return;
    }
    
    parentPort.on('message', () => console.log('msg')).unref();
    (function r(n) {
      if (--n < 0) return;
      const t = Date.now();
      while (Date.now() - t < 300);
      setImmediate(r, n);
    })(10); copy

The event loop utilization of a worker is available only after the `'online'`
event emitted, and if called before this, or after the `'exit'` event, then
all properties have the value of `0`.

#### `worker.postMessage(value[, transferList])`#

Added in: v10.5.0

  * `value` [<any>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Data_types)
  * `transferList` [<Object[]>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)

Send a message to the worker that is received via
`require('node:worker_threads').parentPort.on('message')`. See
`port.postMessage()` for more details.

#### `worker.ref()`#

Added in: v10.5.0

Opposite of `unref()`, calling `ref()` on a previously `unref()`ed worker does
_not_ let the program exit if it's the only active handle left (the default
behavior). If the worker is `ref()`ed, calling `ref()` again has no effect.

#### `worker.resourceLimits`#

Added in: v13.2.0, v12.16.0

  * [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)
    * `maxYoungGenerationSizeMb` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `maxOldGenerationSizeMb` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `codeRangeSizeMb` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
    * `stackSizeMb` [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

Provides the set of JS engine resource constraints for this Worker thread. If
the `resourceLimits` option was passed to the `Worker` constructor, this
matches its values.

If the worker has stopped, the return value is an empty object.

#### `worker.stderr`#

Added in: v10.5.0

  * <stream.Readable>

This is a readable stream which contains data written to `process.stderr`
inside the worker thread. If `stderr: true` was not passed to the `Worker`
constructor, then data is piped to the parent thread's `process.stderr`
stream.

#### `worker.stdin`#

Added in: v10.5.0

  * [<null>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Null_type) | <stream.Writable>

If `stdin: true` was passed to the `Worker` constructor, this is a writable
stream. The data written to this stream will be made available in the worker
thread as `process.stdin`.

#### `worker.stdout`#

Added in: v10.5.0

  * <stream.Readable>

This is a readable stream which contains data written to `process.stdout`
inside the worker thread. If `stdout: true` was not passed to the `Worker`
constructor, then data is piped to the parent thread's `process.stdout`
stream.

#### `worker.terminate()`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v12.5.0 | This function now returns a Promise. Passing a callback is deprecated, and was useless up to this version, as the Worker was actually terminated synchronously. Terminating is now a fully asynchronous operation.  
v10.5.0 | Added in: v10.5.0  
  
  * Returns: [<Promise>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise)

Stop all JavaScript execution in the worker thread as soon as possible.
Returns a Promise for the exit code that is fulfilled when the `'exit'` event
is emitted.

#### `worker.threadId`#

Added in: v10.5.0

  * [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

An integer identifier for the referenced thread. Inside the worker thread, it
is available as `require('node:worker_threads').threadId`. This value is
unique for each `Worker` instance inside a single process.

#### `worker.unref()`#

Added in: v10.5.0

Calling `unref()` on a worker allows the thread to exit if this is the only
active handle in the event system. If the worker is already `unref()`ed
calling `unref()` again has no effect.

### Notes#

#### Synchronous blocking of stdio#

`Worker`s utilize message passing via <MessagePort> to implement interactions
with `stdio`. This means that `stdio` output originating from a `Worker` can
get blocked by synchronous code on the receiving end that is blocking the
Node.js event loop.

    
    
    import {
      Worker,
      isMainThread,
    } from 'node:worker_threads';
    
    if (isMainThread) {
      new Worker(new URL(import.meta.url));
      for (let n = 0; n < 1e10; n++) {
        // Looping to simulate work.
      }
    } else {
      // This output will be blocked by the for loop in the main thread.
      console.log('foo');
    }'use strict';
    
    const {
      Worker,
      isMainThread,
    } = require('node:worker_threads');
    
    if (isMainThread) {
      new Worker(__filename);
      for (let n = 0; n < 1e10; n++) {
        // Looping to simulate work.
      }
    } else {
      // This output will be blocked by the for loop in the main thread.
      console.log('foo');
    }copy

#### Launching worker threads from preload scripts#

Take care when launching worker threads from preload scripts (scripts loaded
and run using the `-r` command line flag). Unless the `execArgv` option is
explicitly set, new Worker threads automatically inherit the command line
flags from the running process and will preload the same preload scripts as
the main thread. If the preload script unconditionally launches a worker
thread, every thread spawned will spawn another until the application crashes.

## Zlib#

Stability: 2 \- Stable

**Source Code:**
[lib/zlib.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/v23.10.0/lib/zlib.js)

The `node:zlib` module provides compression functionality implemented using
Gzip, Deflate/Inflate, Brotli, and Zstd.

To access it:

    
    
    import os from 'node:zlib';const zlib = require('node:zlib');copy

Compression and decompression are built around the Node.js [Streams
API](stream.html).

Compressing or decompressing a stream (such as a file) can be accomplished by
piping the source stream through a `zlib` `Transform` stream into a
destination stream:

    
    
    import {
      createReadStream,
      createWriteStream,
    } from 'node:fs';
    import process from 'node:process';
    import { createGzip } from 'node:zlib';
    import { pipeline } from 'node:stream';
    
    const gzip = createGzip();
    const source = createReadStream('input.txt');
    const destination = createWriteStream('input.txt.gz');
    
    pipeline(source, gzip, destination, (err) => {
      if (err) {
        console.error('An error occurred:', err);
        process.exitCode = 1;
      }
    });const {
      createReadStream,
      createWriteStream,
    } = require('node:fs');
    const process = require('node:process');
    const { createGzip } = require('node:zlib');
    const { pipeline } = require('node:stream');
    
    const gzip = createGzip();
    const source = createReadStream('input.txt');
    const destination = createWriteStream('input.txt.gz');
    
    pipeline(source, gzip, destination, (err) => {
      if (err) {
        console.error('An error occurred:', err);
        process.exitCode = 1;
      }
    });copy

Or, using the promise `pipeline` API:

    
    
    import {
      createReadStream,
      createWriteStream,
    } from 'node:fs';
    import process from 'node:process';
    import { createGzip } from 'node:zlib';
    import { pipeline } from 'node:stream/promises';
    
    async function do_gzip(input, output) {
      const gzip = createGzip();
      const source = createReadStream(input);
      const destination = createWriteStream(output);
      await pipeline(source, gzip, destination);
    }
    
    await do_gzip('input.txt', 'input.txt.gz');const {
      createReadStream,
      createWriteStream,
    } = require('node:fs');
    const process = require('node:process');
    const { createGzip } = require('node:zlib');
    const { pipeline } = require('node:stream/promises');
    
    async function do_gzip(input, output) {
      const gzip = createGzip();
      const source = createReadStream(input);
      const destination = createWriteStream(output);
      await pipeline(source, gzip, destination);
    }
    
    do_gzip('input.txt', 'input.txt.gz')
      .catch((err) => {
        console.error('An error occurred:', err);
        process.exitCode = 1;
      });copy

It is also possible to compress or decompress data in a single step:

    
    
    import process from 'node:process';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    import { deflate, unzip } from 'node:zlib';
    
    const input = '.................................';
    deflate(input, (err, buffer) => {
      if (err) {
        console.error('An error occurred:', err);
        process.exitCode = 1;
      }
      console.log(buffer.toString('base64'));
    });
    
    const buffer = Buffer.from('eJzT0yMAAGTvBe8=', 'base64');
    unzip(buffer, (err, buffer) => {
      if (err) {
        console.error('An error occurred:', err);
        process.exitCode = 1;
      }
      console.log(buffer.toString());
    });
    
    // Or, Promisified
    
    import { promisify } from 'node:util';
    const do_unzip = promisify(unzip);
    
    const unzippedBuffer = await do_unzip(buffer);
    console.log(unzippedBuffer.toString());const { deflate, unzip } = require('node:zlib');
    
    const input = '.................................';
    deflate(input, (err, buffer) => {
      if (err) {
        console.error('An error occurred:', err);
        process.exitCode = 1;
      }
      console.log(buffer.toString('base64'));
    });
    
    const buffer = Buffer.from('eJzT0yMAAGTvBe8=', 'base64');
    unzip(buffer, (err, buffer) => {
      if (err) {
        console.error('An error occurred:', err);
        process.exitCode = 1;
      }
      console.log(buffer.toString());
    });
    
    // Or, Promisified
    
    const { promisify } = require('node:util');
    const do_unzip = promisify(unzip);
    
    do_unzip(buffer)
      .then((buf) => console.log(buf.toString()))
      .catch((err) => {
        console.error('An error occurred:', err);
        process.exitCode = 1;
      });copy

### Threadpool usage and performance considerations#

All `zlib` APIs, except those that are explicitly synchronous, use the Node.js
internal threadpool. This can lead to surprising effects and performance
limitations in some applications.

Creating and using a large number of zlib objects simultaneously can cause
significant memory fragmentation.

    
    
    import zlib from 'node:zlib';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    const payload = Buffer.from('This is some data');
    
    // WARNING: DO NOT DO THIS!
    for (let i = 0; i < 30000; ++i) {
      zlib.deflate(payload, (err, buffer) => {});
    }const zlib = require('node:zlib');
    
    const payload = Buffer.from('This is some data');
    
    // WARNING: DO NOT DO THIS!
    for (let i = 0; i < 30000; ++i) {
      zlib.deflate(payload, (err, buffer) => {});
    }copy

In the preceding example, 30,000 deflate instances are created concurrently.
Because of how some operating systems handle memory allocation and
deallocation, this may lead to significant memory fragmentation.

It is strongly recommended that the results of compression operations be
cached to avoid duplication of effort.

### Compressing HTTP requests and responses#

The `node:zlib` module can be used to implement support for the `gzip`,
`deflate`, `br`, and `zstd` content-encoding mechanisms defined by
[HTTP](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7230#section-4.2).

The HTTP [`Accept-
Encoding`](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec14.html#sec14.3)
header is used within an HTTP request to identify the compression encodings
accepted by the client. The [`Content-
Encoding`](https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec14.html#sec14.11)
header is used to identify the compression encodings actually applied to a
message.

The examples given below are drastically simplified to show the basic concept.
Using `zlib` encoding can be expensive, and the results ought to be cached.
See Memory usage tuning for more information on the speed/memory/compression
tradeoffs involved in `zlib` usage.

    
    
    // Client request example
    import fs from 'node:fs';
    import zlib from 'node:zlib';
    import http from 'node:http';
    import process from 'node:process';
    import { pipeline } from 'node:stream';
    
    const request = http.get({ host: 'example.com',
                               path: '/',
                               port: 80,
                               headers: { 'Accept-Encoding': 'br,gzip,deflate' } });
    request.on('response', (response) => {
      const output = fs.createWriteStream('example.com_index.html');
    
      const onError = (err) => {
        if (err) {
          console.error('An error occurred:', err);
          process.exitCode = 1;
        }
      };
    
      switch (response.headers['content-encoding']) {
        case 'br':
          pipeline(response, zlib.createBrotliDecompress(), output, onError);
          break;
        // Or, just use zlib.createUnzip() to handle both of the following cases:
        case 'gzip':
          pipeline(response, zlib.createGunzip(), output, onError);
          break;
        case 'deflate':
          pipeline(response, zlib.createInflate(), output, onError);
          break;
        default:
          pipeline(response, output, onError);
          break;
      }
    });// Client request example
    const zlib = require('node:zlib');
    const http = require('node:http');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const { pipeline } = require('node:stream');
    
    const request = http.get({ host: 'example.com',
                               path: '/',
                               port: 80,
                               headers: { 'Accept-Encoding': 'br,gzip,deflate,zstd' } });
    request.on('response', (response) => {
      const output = fs.createWriteStream('example.com_index.html');
    
      const onError = (err) => {
        if (err) {
          console.error('An error occurred:', err);
          process.exitCode = 1;
        }
      };
    
      switch (response.headers['content-encoding']) {
        case 'br':
          pipeline(response, zlib.createBrotliDecompress(), output, onError);
          break;
        // Or, just use zlib.createUnzip() to handle both of the following cases:
        case 'gzip':
          pipeline(response, zlib.createGunzip(), output, onError);
          break;
        case 'deflate':
          pipeline(response, zlib.createInflate(), output, onError);
          break;
        case 'zstd':
          pipeline(response, zlib.createZstdDecompress(), output, onError);
          break;
        default:
          pipeline(response, output, onError);
          break;
      }
    });copy
    
    
    // server example
    // Running a gzip operation on every request is quite expensive.
    // It would be much more efficient to cache the compressed buffer.
    import zlib from 'node:zlib';
    import http from 'node:http';
    import fs from 'node:fs';
    import { pipeline } from 'node:stream';
    
    http.createServer((request, response) => {
      const raw = fs.createReadStream('index.html');
      // Store both a compressed and an uncompressed version of the resource.
      response.setHeader('Vary', 'Accept-Encoding');
      const acceptEncoding = request.headers['accept-encoding'] || '';
    
      const onError = (err) => {
        if (err) {
          // If an error occurs, there's not much we can do because
          // the server has already sent the 200 response code and
          // some amount of data has already been sent to the client.
          // The best we can do is terminate the response immediately
          // and log the error.
          response.end();
          console.error('An error occurred:', err);
        }
      };
    
      // Note: This is not a conformant accept-encoding parser.
      // See https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec14.html#sec14.3
      if (/\bdeflate\b/.test(acceptEncoding)) {
        response.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Encoding': 'deflate' });
        pipeline(raw, zlib.createDeflate(), response, onError);
      } else if (/\bgzip\b/.test(acceptEncoding)) {
        response.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Encoding': 'gzip' });
        pipeline(raw, zlib.createGzip(), response, onError);
      } else if (/\bbr\b/.test(acceptEncoding)) {
        response.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Encoding': 'br' });
        pipeline(raw, zlib.createBrotliCompress(), response, onError);
      } else {
        response.writeHead(200, {});
        pipeline(raw, response, onError);
      }
    }).listen(1337);// server example
    // Running a gzip operation on every request is quite expensive.
    // It would be much more efficient to cache the compressed buffer.
    const zlib = require('node:zlib');
    const http = require('node:http');
    const fs = require('node:fs');
    const { pipeline } = require('node:stream');
    
    http.createServer((request, response) => {
      const raw = fs.createReadStream('index.html');
      // Store both a compressed and an uncompressed version of the resource.
      response.setHeader('Vary', 'Accept-Encoding');
      const acceptEncoding = request.headers['accept-encoding'] || '';
    
      const onError = (err) => {
        if (err) {
          // If an error occurs, there's not much we can do because
          // the server has already sent the 200 response code and
          // some amount of data has already been sent to the client.
          // The best we can do is terminate the response immediately
          // and log the error.
          response.end();
          console.error('An error occurred:', err);
        }
      };
    
      // Note: This is not a conformant accept-encoding parser.
      // See https://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec14.html#sec14.3
      if (/\bdeflate\b/.test(acceptEncoding)) {
        response.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Encoding': 'deflate' });
        pipeline(raw, zlib.createDeflate(), response, onError);
      } else if (/\bgzip\b/.test(acceptEncoding)) {
        response.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Encoding': 'gzip' });
        pipeline(raw, zlib.createGzip(), response, onError);
      } else if (/\bbr\b/.test(acceptEncoding)) {
        response.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Encoding': 'br' });
        pipeline(raw, zlib.createBrotliCompress(), response, onError);
      } else if (/\bzstd\b/.test(acceptEncoding)) {
        response.writeHead(200, { 'Content-Encoding': 'zstd' });
        pipeline(raw, zlib.createZstdCompress(), response, onError);
      } else {
        response.writeHead(200, {});
        pipeline(raw, response, onError);
      }
    }).listen(1337);copy

By default, the `zlib` methods will throw an error when decompressing
truncated data. However, if it is known that the data is incomplete, or the
desire is to inspect only the beginning of a compressed file, it is possible
to suppress the default error handling by changing the flushing method that is
used to decompress the last chunk of input data:

    
    
    // This is a truncated version of the buffer from the above examples
    const buffer = Buffer.from('eJzT0yMA', 'base64');
    
    zlib.unzip(
      buffer,
      // For Brotli, the equivalent is zlib.constants.BROTLI_OPERATION_FLUSH.
      // For Zstd, the equivalent is zlib.constants.ZSTD_e_flush.
      { finishFlush: zlib.constants.Z_SYNC_FLUSH },
      (err, buffer) => {
        if (err) {
          console.error('An error occurred:', err);
          process.exitCode = 1;
        }
        console.log(buffer.toString());
      }); copy

This will not change the behavior in other error-throwing situations, e.g.
when the input data has an invalid format. Using this method, it will not be
possible to determine whether the input ended prematurely or lacks the
integrity checks, making it necessary to manually check that the decompressed
result is valid.

### Memory usage tuning#

#### For zlib-based streams#

From `zlib/zconf.h`, modified for Node.js usage:

The memory requirements for deflate are (in bytes):

    
    
    (1 << (windowBits + 2)) + (1 << (memLevel + 9)) copy

That is: 128K for `windowBits` = 15 + 128K for `memLevel` = 8 (default values)
plus a few kilobytes for small objects.

For example, to reduce the default memory requirements from 256K to 128K, the
options should be set to:

    
    
    const options = { windowBits: 14, memLevel: 7 }; copy

This will, however, generally degrade compression.

The memory requirements for inflate are (in bytes) `1 << windowBits`. That is,
32K for `windowBits` = 15 (default value) plus a few kilobytes for small
objects.

This is in addition to a single internal output slab buffer of size
`chunkSize`, which defaults to 16K.

The speed of `zlib` compression is affected most dramatically by the `level`
setting. A higher level will result in better compression, but will take
longer to complete. A lower level will result in less compression, but will be
much faster.

In general, greater memory usage options will mean that Node.js has to make
fewer calls to `zlib` because it will be able to process more data on each
`write` operation. So, this is another factor that affects the speed, at the
cost of memory usage.

#### For Brotli-based streams#

There are equivalents to the zlib options for Brotli-based streams, although
these options have different ranges than the zlib ones:

  * zlib's `level` option matches Brotli's `BROTLI_PARAM_QUALITY` option.
  * zlib's `windowBits` option matches Brotli's `BROTLI_PARAM_LGWIN` option.

See below for more details on Brotli-specific options.

#### For Zstd-based streams#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

There are equivalents to the zlib options for Zstd-based streams, although
these options have different ranges than the zlib ones:

  * zlib's `level` option matches Zstd's `ZSTD_c_compressionLevel` option.
  * zlib's `windowBits` option matches Zstd's `ZSTD_c_windowLog` option.

See below for more details on Zstd-specific options.

### Flushing#

Calling `.flush()` on a compression stream will make `zlib` return as much
output as currently possible. This may come at the cost of degraded
compression quality, but can be useful when data needs to be available as soon
as possible.

In the following example, `flush()` is used to write a compressed partial HTTP
response to the client:

    
    
    import zlib from 'node:zlib';
    import http from 'node:http';
    import { pipeline } from 'node:stream';
    
    http.createServer((request, response) => {
      // For the sake of simplicity, the Accept-Encoding checks are omitted.
      response.writeHead(200, { 'content-encoding': 'gzip' });
      const output = zlib.createGzip();
      let i;
    
      pipeline(output, response, (err) => {
        if (err) {
          // If an error occurs, there's not much we can do because
          // the server has already sent the 200 response code and
          // some amount of data has already been sent to the client.
          // The best we can do is terminate the response immediately
          // and log the error.
          clearInterval(i);
          response.end();
          console.error('An error occurred:', err);
        }
      });
    
      i = setInterval(() => {
        output.write(`The current time is ${Date()}\n`, () => {
          // The data has been passed to zlib, but the compression algorithm may
          // have decided to buffer the data for more efficient compression.
          // Calling .flush() will make the data available as soon as the client
          // is ready to receive it.
          output.flush();
        });
      }, 1000);
    }).listen(1337);const zlib = require('node:zlib');
    const http = require('node:http');
    const { pipeline } = require('node:stream');
    
    http.createServer((request, response) => {
      // For the sake of simplicity, the Accept-Encoding checks are omitted.
      response.writeHead(200, { 'content-encoding': 'gzip' });
      const output = zlib.createGzip();
      let i;
    
      pipeline(output, response, (err) => {
        if (err) {
          // If an error occurs, there's not much we can do because
          // the server has already sent the 200 response code and
          // some amount of data has already been sent to the client.
          // The best we can do is terminate the response immediately
          // and log the error.
          clearInterval(i);
          response.end();
          console.error('An error occurred:', err);
        }
      });
    
      i = setInterval(() => {
        output.write(`The current time is ${Date()}\n`, () => {
          // The data has been passed to zlib, but the compression algorithm may
          // have decided to buffer the data for more efficient compression.
          // Calling .flush() will make the data available as soon as the client
          // is ready to receive it.
          output.flush();
        });
      }, 1000);
    }).listen(1337);copy

### Constants#

Added in: v0.5.8

#### zlib constants#

All of the constants defined in `zlib.h` are also defined on
`require('node:zlib').constants`. In the normal course of operations, it will
not be necessary to use these constants. They are documented so that their
presence is not surprising. This section is taken almost directly from the
[zlib documentation](https://zlib.net/manual.html#Constants).

Previously, the constants were available directly from `require('node:zlib')`,
for instance `zlib.Z_NO_FLUSH`. Accessing the constants directly from the
module is currently still possible but is deprecated.

Allowed flush values.

  * `zlib.constants.Z_NO_FLUSH`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_PARTIAL_FLUSH`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_SYNC_FLUSH`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_FULL_FLUSH`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_FINISH`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_BLOCK`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_TREES`

Return codes for the compression/decompression functions. Negative values are
errors, positive values are used for special but normal events.

  * `zlib.constants.Z_OK`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_STREAM_END`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_NEED_DICT`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_ERRNO`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_STREAM_ERROR`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_DATA_ERROR`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_MEM_ERROR`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_BUF_ERROR`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_VERSION_ERROR`

Compression levels.

  * `zlib.constants.Z_NO_COMPRESSION`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_BEST_SPEED`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_BEST_COMPRESSION`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_DEFAULT_COMPRESSION`

Compression strategy.

  * `zlib.constants.Z_FILTERED`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_HUFFMAN_ONLY`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_RLE`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_FIXED`
  * `zlib.constants.Z_DEFAULT_STRATEGY`

#### Brotli constants#

Added in: v11.7.0, v10.16.0

There are several options and other constants available for Brotli-based
streams:

##### Flush operations#

The following values are valid flush operations for Brotli-based streams:

  * `zlib.constants.BROTLI_OPERATION_PROCESS` (default for all operations)
  * `zlib.constants.BROTLI_OPERATION_FLUSH` (default when calling `.flush()`)
  * `zlib.constants.BROTLI_OPERATION_FINISH` (default for the last chunk)
  * `zlib.constants.BROTLI_OPERATION_EMIT_METADATA`
    * This particular operation may be hard to use in a Node.js context, as the streaming layer makes it hard to know which data will end up in this frame. Also, there is currently no way to consume this data through the Node.js API.

##### Compressor options#

There are several options that can be set on Brotli encoders, affecting
compression efficiency and speed. Both the keys and the values can be accessed
as properties of the `zlib.constants` object.

The most important options are:

  * `BROTLI_PARAM_MODE`
    * `BROTLI_MODE_GENERIC` (default)
    * `BROTLI_MODE_TEXT`, adjusted for UTF-8 text
    * `BROTLI_MODE_FONT`, adjusted for WOFF 2.0 fonts
  * `BROTLI_PARAM_QUALITY`
    * Ranges from `BROTLI_MIN_QUALITY` to `BROTLI_MAX_QUALITY`, with a default of `BROTLI_DEFAULT_QUALITY`.
  * `BROTLI_PARAM_SIZE_HINT`
    * Integer value representing the expected input size; defaults to `0` for an unknown input size.

The following flags can be set for advanced control over the compression
algorithm and memory usage tuning:

  * `BROTLI_PARAM_LGWIN`
    * Ranges from `BROTLI_MIN_WINDOW_BITS` to `BROTLI_MAX_WINDOW_BITS`, with a default of `BROTLI_DEFAULT_WINDOW`, or up to `BROTLI_LARGE_MAX_WINDOW_BITS` if the `BROTLI_PARAM_LARGE_WINDOW` flag is set.
  * `BROTLI_PARAM_LGBLOCK`
    * Ranges from `BROTLI_MIN_INPUT_BLOCK_BITS` to `BROTLI_MAX_INPUT_BLOCK_BITS`.
  * `BROTLI_PARAM_DISABLE_LITERAL_CONTEXT_MODELING`
    * Boolean flag that decreases compression ratio in favour of decompression speed.
  * `BROTLI_PARAM_LARGE_WINDOW`
    * Boolean flag enabling “Large Window Brotli” mode (not compatible with the Brotli format as standardized in [RFC 7932](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7932.txt)).
  * `BROTLI_PARAM_NPOSTFIX`
    * Ranges from `0` to `BROTLI_MAX_NPOSTFIX`.
  * `BROTLI_PARAM_NDIRECT`
    * Ranges from `0` to `15 << NPOSTFIX` in steps of `1 << NPOSTFIX`.

##### Decompressor options#

These advanced options are available for controlling decompression:

  * `BROTLI_DECODER_PARAM_DISABLE_RING_BUFFER_REALLOCATION`
    * Boolean flag that affects internal memory allocation patterns.
  * `BROTLI_DECODER_PARAM_LARGE_WINDOW`
    * Boolean flag enabling “Large Window Brotli” mode (not compatible with the Brotli format as standardized in [RFC 7932](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7932.txt)).

#### Zstd constants#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Added in: v23.8.0

There are several options and other constants available for Zstd-based
streams:

##### Flush operations#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

The following values are valid flush operations for Zstd-based streams:

  * `zlib.constants.ZSTD_e_continue` (default for all operations)
  * `zlib.constants.ZSTD_e_flush` (default when calling `.flush()`)
  * `zlib.constants.ZSTD_e_end` (default for the last chunk)

##### Compressor options#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

There are several options that can be set on Zstd encoders, affecting
compression efficiency and speed. Both the keys and the values can be accessed
as properties of the `zlib.constants` object.

The most important options are:

  * `ZSTD_c_compressionLevel`
    * Set compression parameters according to pre-defined cLevel table. Default level is ZSTD_CLEVEL_DEFAULT==3.

##### Pledged Source Size#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

It's possible to specify the expected total size of the uncompressed input via
`opts.pledgedSrcSize`. If the size doesn't match at the end of the input,
compression will fail with the code `ZSTD_error_srcSize_wrong`.

##### Decompressor options#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

These advanced options are available for controlling decompression:

  * `ZSTD_d_windowLogMax`
    * Select a size limit (in power of 2) beyond which the streaming API will refuse to allocate memory buffer in order to protect the host from unreasonable memory requirements.

### Class: `Options`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.5.0, v12.19.0 | The `maxOutputLength` option is supported now.  
v9.4.0 | The `dictionary` option can be an `ArrayBuffer`.  
v8.0.0 | The `dictionary` option can be an `Uint8Array` now.  
v5.11.0 | The `finishFlush` option is supported now.  
v0.11.1 | Added in: v0.11.1  
  
Each zlib-based class takes an `options` object. No options are required.

Some options are only relevant when compressing and are ignored by the
decompression classes.

  * `flush` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `zlib.constants.Z_NO_FLUSH`
  * `finishFlush` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `zlib.constants.Z_FINISH`
  * `chunkSize` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `16 * 1024`
  * `windowBits` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `level` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) (compression only)
  * `memLevel` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) (compression only)
  * `strategy` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) (compression only)
  * `dictionary` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) (deflate/inflate only, empty dictionary by default)
  * `info` [<boolean>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Boolean_type) (If `true`, returns an object with `buffer` and `engine`.)
  * `maxOutputLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Limits output size when using convenience methods. **Default:** `buffer.kMaxLength`

See the [`deflateInit2` and
`inflateInit2`](https://zlib.net/manual.html#Advanced) documentation for more
information.

### Class: `BrotliOptions`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v14.5.0, v12.19.0 | The `maxOutputLength` option is supported now.  
v11.7.0 | Added in: v11.7.0  
  
Each Brotli-based class takes an `options` object. All options are optional.

  * `flush` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `zlib.constants.BROTLI_OPERATION_PROCESS`
  * `finishFlush` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `zlib.constants.BROTLI_OPERATION_FINISH`
  * `chunkSize` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `16 * 1024`
  * `params` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Key-value object containing indexed Brotli parameters.
  * `maxOutputLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Limits output size when using convenience methods. **Default:** `buffer.kMaxLength`

For example:

    
    
    const stream = zlib.createBrotliCompress({
      chunkSize: 32 * 1024,
      params: {
        [zlib.constants.BROTLI_PARAM_MODE]: zlib.constants.BROTLI_MODE_TEXT,
        [zlib.constants.BROTLI_PARAM_QUALITY]: 4,
        [zlib.constants.BROTLI_PARAM_SIZE_HINT]: fs.statSync(inputFile).size,
      },
    }); copy

### Class: `zlib.BrotliCompress`#

Added in: v11.7.0, v10.16.0

Compress data using the Brotli algorithm.

### Class: `zlib.BrotliDecompress`#

Added in: v11.7.0, v10.16.0

Decompress data using the Brotli algorithm.

### Class: `zlib.Deflate`#

Added in: v0.5.8

Compress data using deflate.

### Class: `zlib.DeflateRaw`#

Added in: v0.5.8

Compress data using deflate, and do not append a `zlib` header.

### Class: `zlib.Gunzip`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.0.0 | Trailing garbage at the end of the input stream will now result in an `'error'` event.  
v5.9.0 | Multiple concatenated gzip file members are supported now.  
v5.0.0 | A truncated input stream will now result in an `'error'` event.  
v0.5.8 | Added in: v0.5.8  
  
Decompress a gzip stream.

### Class: `zlib.Gzip`#

Added in: v0.5.8

Compress data using gzip.

### Class: `zlib.Inflate`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v5.0.0 | A truncated input stream will now result in an `'error'` event.  
v0.5.8 | Added in: v0.5.8  
  
Decompress a deflate stream.

### Class: `zlib.InflateRaw`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v6.8.0 | Custom dictionaries are now supported by `InflateRaw`.  
v5.0.0 | A truncated input stream will now result in an `'error'` event.  
v0.5.8 | Added in: v0.5.8  
  
Decompress a raw deflate stream.

### Class: `zlib.Unzip`#

Added in: v0.5.8

Decompress either a Gzip- or Deflate-compressed stream by auto-detecting the
header.

### Class: `zlib.ZlibBase`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v11.7.0, v10.16.0 | This class was renamed from `Zlib` to `ZlibBase`.  
v0.5.8 | Added in: v0.5.8  
  
Not exported by the `node:zlib` module. It is documented here because it is
the base class of the compressor/decompressor classes.

This class inherits from `stream.Transform`, allowing `node:zlib` objects to
be used in pipes and similar stream operations.

#### `zlib.bytesWritten`#

Added in: v10.0.0

  * [<number>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)

The `zlib.bytesWritten` property specifies the number of bytes written to the
engine, before the bytes are processed (compressed or decompressed, as
appropriate for the derived class).

#### `zlib.close([callback])`#

Added in: v0.9.4

  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Close the underlying handle.

#### `zlib.flush([kind, ]callback)`#

Added in: v0.5.8

  * `kind` **Default:** `zlib.constants.Z_FULL_FLUSH` for zlib-based streams, `zlib.constants.BROTLI_OPERATION_FLUSH` for Brotli-based streams.
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

Flush pending data. Don't call this frivolously, premature flushes negatively
impact the effectiveness of the compression algorithm.

Calling this only flushes data from the internal `zlib` state, and does not
perform flushing of any kind on the streams level. Rather, it behaves like a
normal call to `.write()`, i.e. it will be queued up behind other pending
writes and will only produce output when data is being read from the stream.

#### `zlib.params(level, strategy, callback)`#

Added in: v0.11.4

  * `level` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `strategy` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type)
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

This function is only available for zlib-based streams, i.e. not Brotli.

Dynamically update the compression level and compression strategy. Only
applicable to deflate algorithm.

#### `zlib.reset()`#

Added in: v0.7.0

Reset the compressor/decompressor to factory defaults. Only applicable to the
inflate and deflate algorithms.

### Class: `ZstdOptions`#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Added in: v23.8.0

Each Zstd-based class takes an `options` object. All options are optional.

  * `flush` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `zlib.constants.ZSTD_e_continue`
  * `finishFlush` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `zlib.constants.ZSTD_e_end`
  * `chunkSize` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) **Default:** `16 * 1024`
  * `params` [<Object>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object) Key-value object containing indexed Zstd parameters.
  * `maxOutputLength` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) Limits output size when using convenience methods. **Default:** `buffer.kMaxLength`

For example:

    
    
    const stream = zlib.createZstdCompress({
      chunkSize: 32 * 1024,
      params: {
        [zlib.constants.ZSTD_c_compressionLevel]: 10,
        [zlib.constants.ZSTD_c_checksumFlag]: 1,
      },
    }); copy

### Class: `zlib.ZstdCompress`#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Added in: v23.8.0

Compress data using the Zstd algorithm.

### Class: `zlib.ZstdDecompress`#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Added in: v23.8.0

Decompress data using the Zstd algorithm.

### `zlib.constants`#

Added in: v7.0.0

Provides an object enumerating Zlib-related constants.

### `zlib.crc32(data[, value])`#

Added in: v22.2.0, v20.15.0

  * `data` [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type) | <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) When `data` is a string, it will be encoded as UTF-8 before being used for computation.
  * `value` [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) An optional starting value. It must be a 32-bit unsigned integer. **Default:** `0`
  * Returns: [<integer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#Number_type) A 32-bit unsigned integer containing the checksum.

Computes a 32-bit [Cyclic Redundancy
Check](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyclic_redundancy_check) checksum of
`data`. If `value` is specified, it is used as the starting value of the
checksum, otherwise, 0 is used as the starting value.

The CRC algorithm is designed to compute checksums and to detect error in data
transmission. It's not suitable for cryptographic authentication.

To be consistent with other APIs, if the `data` is a string, it will be
encoded with UTF-8 before being used for computation. If users only use
Node.js to compute and match the checksums, this works well with other APIs
that uses the UTF-8 encoding by default.

Some third-party JavaScript libraries compute the checksum on a string based
on `str.charCodeAt()` so that it can be run in browsers. If users want to
match the checksum computed with this kind of library in the browser, it's
better to use the same library in Node.js if it also runs in Node.js. If users
have to use `zlib.crc32()` to match the checksum produced by such a third-
party library:

  1. If the library accepts `Uint8Array` as input, use `TextEncoder` in the browser to encode the string into a `Uint8Array` with UTF-8 encoding, and compute the checksum based on the UTF-8 encoded string in the browser.
  2. If the library only takes a string and compute the data based on `str.charCodeAt()`, on the Node.js side, convert the string into a buffer using `Buffer.from(str, 'utf16le')`.

    
    
    import zlib from 'node:zlib';
    import { Buffer } from 'node:buffer';
    
    let crc = zlib.crc32('hello');  // 907060870
    crc = zlib.crc32('world', crc);  // 4192936109
    
    crc = zlib.crc32(Buffer.from('hello', 'utf16le'));  // 1427272415
    crc = zlib.crc32(Buffer.from('world', 'utf16le'), crc);  // 4150509955const zlib = require('node:zlib');
    const { Buffer } = require('node:buffer');
    
    let crc = zlib.crc32('hello');  // 907060870
    crc = zlib.crc32('world', crc);  // 4192936109
    
    crc = zlib.crc32(Buffer.from('hello', 'utf16le'));  // 1427272415
    crc = zlib.crc32(Buffer.from('world', 'utf16le'), crc);  // 4150509955copy

### `zlib.createBrotliCompress([options])`#

Added in: v11.7.0, v10.16.0

  * `options` <brotli options>

Creates and returns a new `BrotliCompress` object.

### `zlib.createBrotliDecompress([options])`#

Added in: v11.7.0, v10.16.0

  * `options` <brotli options>

Creates and returns a new `BrotliDecompress` object.

### `zlib.createDeflate([options])`#

Added in: v0.5.8

  * `options` <zlib options>

Creates and returns a new `Deflate` object.

### `zlib.createDeflateRaw([options])`#

Added in: v0.5.8

  * `options` <zlib options>

Creates and returns a new `DeflateRaw` object.

An upgrade of zlib from 1.2.8 to 1.2.11 changed behavior when `windowBits` is
set to 8 for raw deflate streams. zlib would automatically set `windowBits` to
9 if was initially set to 8. Newer versions of zlib will throw an exception,
so Node.js restored the original behavior of upgrading a value of 8 to 9,
since passing `windowBits = 9` to zlib actually results in a compressed stream
that effectively uses an 8-bit window only.

### `zlib.createGunzip([options])`#

Added in: v0.5.8

  * `options` <zlib options>

Creates and returns a new `Gunzip` object.

### `zlib.createGzip([options])`#

Added in: v0.5.8

  * `options` <zlib options>

Creates and returns a new `Gzip` object. See example.

### `zlib.createInflate([options])`#

Added in: v0.5.8

  * `options` <zlib options>

Creates and returns a new `Inflate` object.

### `zlib.createInflateRaw([options])`#

Added in: v0.5.8

  * `options` <zlib options>

Creates and returns a new `InflateRaw` object.

### `zlib.createUnzip([options])`#

Added in: v0.5.8

  * `options` <zlib options>

Creates and returns a new `Unzip` object.

### `zlib.createZstdCompress([options])`#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Added in: v23.8.0

  * `options` <zstd options>

Creates and returns a new `ZstdCompress` object.

### `zlib.createZstdDecompress([options])`#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Added in: v23.8.0

  * `options` <zstd options>

Creates and returns a new `ZstdDecompress` object.

### Convenience methods#

All of these take a <Buffer>, [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray),
[<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView),
[<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-
US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer), or string as the
first argument, an optional second argument to supply options to the `zlib`
classes and will call the supplied callback with `callback(error, result)`.

Every method has a `*Sync` counterpart, which accept the same arguments, but
without a callback.

#### `zlib.brotliCompress(buffer[, options], callback)`#

Added in: v11.7.0, v10.16.0

  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <brotli options>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

#### `zlib.brotliCompressSync(buffer[, options])`#

Added in: v11.7.0, v10.16.0

  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <brotli options>

Compress a chunk of data with `BrotliCompress`.

#### `zlib.brotliDecompress(buffer[, options], callback)`#

Added in: v11.7.0, v10.16.0

  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <brotli options>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

#### `zlib.brotliDecompressSync(buffer[, options])`#

Added in: v11.7.0, v10.16.0

  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <brotli options>

Decompress a chunk of data with `BrotliDecompress`.

#### `zlib.deflate(buffer[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.4.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `ArrayBuffer`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be any `TypedArray` or `DataView`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `Uint8Array` now.  
v0.6.0 | Added in: v0.6.0  
  
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zlib options>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

#### `zlib.deflateSync(buffer[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.4.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `ArrayBuffer`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be any `TypedArray` or `DataView`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `Uint8Array` now.  
v0.11.12 | Added in: v0.11.12  
  
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zlib options>

Compress a chunk of data with `Deflate`.

#### `zlib.deflateRaw(buffer[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be any `TypedArray` or `DataView`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `Uint8Array` now.  
v0.6.0 | Added in: v0.6.0  
  
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zlib options>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

#### `zlib.deflateRawSync(buffer[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.4.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `ArrayBuffer`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be any `TypedArray` or `DataView`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `Uint8Array` now.  
v0.11.12 | Added in: v0.11.12  
  
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zlib options>

Compress a chunk of data with `DeflateRaw`.

#### `zlib.gunzip(buffer[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.4.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `ArrayBuffer`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be any `TypedArray` or `DataView`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `Uint8Array` now.  
v0.6.0 | Added in: v0.6.0  
  
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zlib options>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

#### `zlib.gunzipSync(buffer[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.4.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `ArrayBuffer`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be any `TypedArray` or `DataView`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `Uint8Array` now.  
v0.11.12 | Added in: v0.11.12  
  
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zlib options>

Decompress a chunk of data with `Gunzip`.

#### `zlib.gzip(buffer[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.4.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `ArrayBuffer`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be any `TypedArray` or `DataView`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `Uint8Array` now.  
v0.6.0 | Added in: v0.6.0  
  
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zlib options>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

#### `zlib.gzipSync(buffer[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.4.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `ArrayBuffer`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be any `TypedArray` or `DataView`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `Uint8Array` now.  
v0.11.12 | Added in: v0.11.12  
  
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zlib options>

Compress a chunk of data with `Gzip`.

#### `zlib.inflate(buffer[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.4.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `ArrayBuffer`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be any `TypedArray` or `DataView`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `Uint8Array` now.  
v0.6.0 | Added in: v0.6.0  
  
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zlib options>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

#### `zlib.inflateSync(buffer[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.4.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `ArrayBuffer`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be any `TypedArray` or `DataView`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `Uint8Array` now.  
v0.11.12 | Added in: v0.11.12  
  
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zlib options>

Decompress a chunk of data with `Inflate`.

#### `zlib.inflateRaw(buffer[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.4.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `ArrayBuffer`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be any `TypedArray` or `DataView`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `Uint8Array` now.  
v0.6.0 | Added in: v0.6.0  
  
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zlib options>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

#### `zlib.inflateRawSync(buffer[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.4.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `ArrayBuffer`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be any `TypedArray` or `DataView`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `Uint8Array` now.  
v0.11.12 | Added in: v0.11.12  
  
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zlib options>

Decompress a chunk of data with `InflateRaw`.

#### `zlib.unzip(buffer[, options], callback)`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.4.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `ArrayBuffer`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be any `TypedArray` or `DataView`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `Uint8Array` now.  
v0.6.0 | Added in: v0.6.0  
  
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zlib options>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

#### `zlib.unzipSync(buffer[, options])`#

History Version| Changes  
---|---  
v9.4.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `ArrayBuffer`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be any `TypedArray` or `DataView`.  
v8.0.0 | The `buffer` parameter can be an `Uint8Array` now.  
v0.11.12 | Added in: v0.11.12  
  
  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zlib options>

Decompress a chunk of data with `Unzip`.

#### `zlib.zstdCompress(buffer[, options], callback)`#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Added in: v23.8.0

  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zstd options>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

#### `zlib.zstdCompressSync(buffer[, options])`#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Added in: v23.8.0

  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zstd options>

Compress a chunk of data with `ZstdCompress`.

#### `zlib.zstdDecompress(buffer[, options], callback)`#

Added in: v23.8.0

  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zstd options>
  * `callback` [<Function>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Function)

#### `zlib.zstdDecompressSync(buffer[, options])`#

Stability: 1 \- Experimental

Added in: v23.8.0

  * `buffer` <Buffer> | [<TypedArray>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray) | [<DataView>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/DataView) | [<ArrayBuffer>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/ArrayBuffer) | [<string>](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures#String_type)
  * `options` <zstd options>

Decompress a chunk of data with `ZstdDecompress`.

